 
  
Programme Outcome  
 
 
Program Name 
Program Outcome 
 
B. Sc. 
(Information 
Technology) 
PO1: To develop the necessary analytical abilities for developing computer-
based solutions for real life problems. 
PO2: To inculcate quality practices in Information Technology solutions 
development.  
PO3: To imbibe professional skills in students for their future roles. 
PO4: To prepare necessary knowledge base for potential research and 
development in Information Technology. 
PO5: To help students’ build-up a successful career in Information 
Technology and allied fields. 
 
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Program Name and 
Semester 
 
Bachelor of Science in Information Technology (B. Sc.IT) 
Semester -I  
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
Communication Skills 
CO1: To introduce aspects of communication essential for business 
communication. 
CO2: 
Train 
learners 
in 
written 
aspects 
of 
organizational 
communication i.e., business messages and documents requisite for 
career building. 
CO3: To enhance learners’ oral communication and prepare them for 
business interviews and professional group communication. 
CO4: To familiarize them with specific communication needs of an 
organization. 
CO5: To enable use of ICT and communication aids. 
 
Digital Electronics 
CO1: Have a thorough understanding of the fundamental concepts and 
techniques used in digital electronics. 
CO2: To understand and examine the structure of various number 
systems and their application in digital design. 
CO3: Ability to identify basic requirements for a design application and 
formulate the most suitable solution. 
CO4: Ability to understand, analyze and design various combinational 
and sequential circuits. 
CO5: The ability to identify and prevent various hazards and timing 
problems in a design. 
CO6: To develop skill to build and troubleshoot digital circuits. 
 
Discrete Mathematics 
CO1: To use logically valid forms of argument, convert formal to 
informal statement and vice- versa by avoiding common logical errors. 
CO2: To use both direct and indirect arguments to derive new results 
from the given set of logical identities and those which are already 
known to be true. 
CO3: To develop recursive thinking which is used in the analysis of 
algorithms for proving any type of given sequences and series. 
CO4: To apply principles and concepts of graph theory in practical 
situations so that any complex algorithm can be solved in a more 
efficient manner. 
CO5: To understand the laws concerning the measurement of random 
or chance events. It will also enable some news methods of counting 
the number of observations or ways of occurrence of an event easily. 
Operating Systems 
CO1: To compare processes, solve sums based on scheduling algorithm 
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
and compare their output. 
CO2: Implementing the memory management, virtual memory and file 
systems management in virtual system. 
CO3: To solve numerical based on deadlock 
CO4: To run Linux operating systems using commands also would be 
able to install and run commands using virtualization. 
CO5: To compare different types of operating systems. 
 
Imperative 
Programming 
CO1: To understand the programming languages and fundamentals of 
C. 
CO2: To recognize different Operators, Expressions, Data Input and 
output functions. 
CO3: To interpret the use of conditional, looping statement and 
functions 
CO4: To implement different programs in C language. 
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Program Name and 
Semester 
 
Bachelor of Science in Information Technology (B. Sc.IT) 
Semester -II 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
Numerical and 
Statistical Methods 
CO1: Understand various Engineering problems, various types of 
errors which occur in real life and representation of any function as a 
series of non-linear coefficients. 
CO2: Determine the roots of any polynomial and estimate the future as 
well as intermediate value depending on the pre-requisite values (Past 
values). 
CO3: Determine the solution of multiple equations and integrate any 
linear or non-linear functions within the given intervals. 
CO4: Prediction of the future values depending on the present as well 
as past values and to optimize the given situation. 
CO5: Mapping of a given event into another domain and understanding 
various types of distribution to be used in probability. 
 
Microprocessor 
Architecture 
CO1: Understand 8085 Microprocessor Architecture. External pin 
diagram and pin functions of IC 8085. Understand difference between 
microprocessor and CPU. Know testing and troubleshooting in memory 
interfacing circuits. 
CO2: Increase your proficiency in assembly language.  
CO3: Gain practical experience in programming. 
CO4: Learn concepts associated with interfacing a microprocessor to 
memory and I/O devices. 
CO5: To understand how to control components of computer system 
through use of hardware and software interruptions. 
CO6: Student will be able to choose best processor for their personal 
computers and laptops. 
 
Green Computing 
CO1: Understand the relation and impact of environmental 
perspectives and IT. Use and give an account of standards and 
certifications related to sustainable IT products. 
CO2: Use methods and tools to measure energy consumption. 
CO3: Evaluate effectiveness of IT use in relation to environmental 
perspectives. 
CO4: Evaluate how the choice of hardware and software can facilitate 
a more sustainable operation. 
 
Object Oriented 
Programming 
CO1: Differentiate between POP and OOP. 
CO2: Build C++ application programs using OOP principles and 
proper program structuring.  
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
CO3: Demonstrate the concepts of polymorphism. 
CO4: Implement Inheritance and learn code reusability. 
CO5: Design Templates and File Handling. 
 
Web Programming 
CO1: To understand various terminologies of Internet, simple 
application of HTML5. 
CO2: To design web pages using advanced HTML5. 
CO3: To design dynamic web pages using JavaScript.  
CO4: To develop simple, responsive web pages using PHP. 
CO5: To build web pages using PHP & MySQL. 
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Program Name and 
Semester 
 
Bachelor of Science in Information Technology (B. Sc.IT) 
Semester -III 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
Applied Mathematics 
CO1: To calculate the various image transformations using matrices. 
CO2: Equation of First Order and second order differential Equation 
can describe exponential growth and decay, the population growth of 
species or the change in investment return over time. 
CO3: Implementation of Laplace Transformation will help to 
understand how various analog and digital signal conversions are done. 
CO4: Multiple Integration will help to calculate the surface area and 
volume of any real-life objects. 
CO5: Error functions will help to calculate the accurate error from true 
and observed value. 
 
Computer Networks 
CO1: To recognize the purposes and association between the OSI 
layers, different types of signals and their mechanism of understanding 
each of them. 
CO2: To understand types of multiplexing schemes, transmission 
media and functions of data link layer. 
CO3: Identify the network devices working at various layers, media 
access layer and protocols.  
CO4: To implement switching and routing algorithms like RIP, OSPF 
etc. and addressing schemes. 
CO5: To decide the right client server protocols to be used in the real-
life scenario. 
 
Python Programming 
CO1: To develop small applications using basic concepts, values & 
expressions, various control & conditional statements and Looping. 
CO2: To use and implement built-in functions and User defined 
Functions along with different sting methods. 
CO3: To use new datatypes such as Lists, Tuples and dictionaries, 
Create and handle Exceptions and how to deal with files. 
CO4: To create classes and objects, implement use of regular 
expression and multithreaded programming. 
CO5: To develop GUI applications with database connectivity. 
 
Data Structures 
CO1: Understand how arrays can be efficiently used to store linear sets 
of similar type of data and perform various operations like searching, 
sorting, merging, reversing etc. 
CO2: Interpret Linked List data structure to store data in non-linear 
form for effective utilization of memory, to solve problems like 
polynomial equations. 
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
CO3: Design stack and queue data structures and learn basic 
operations to be performed. Solve various problems using stacks 
and queues. 
CO4: Apply various sorting and searching techniques on arrays and 
to create various types of trees and their applications like Huffman 
Algorithm, binary search tree etc. 
CO5: Understand Hashing techniques including collision techniques 
and to study graphs and their different operations and its traversals. 
 
Database 
Management 
System 
CO1: To design the model of database using required data Models. 
CO2: To demonstrate the concepts of Normalization and Relational 
Algebra operations on the database. 
CO3: To apply constraints on the values of DB also can apply different 
sub queries and   triggers to get the desired result from the database. 
CO4: To understand the concept of Transaction management and 
Concurrency Control. 
CO5: To implement PL/SQL blocks with Exception Handling, cursors, 
procedures, functions and packages to create the database for their 
project. 
 
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Program Name and 
Semester 
 
Bachelor of Science in Information Technology (B. Sc.IT) 
Semester -IV 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
Introduction to 
Embedded 
Systems 
CO1: Understand the basic concepts of embedded systems. 
CO2: Familiarize with characteristics and attributes of embedded 
systems. 
CO3: Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of hardware software 
co design techniques for microcontroller based embedded systems. 
CO4: Program microcontrollers in C using IDE and debugging 
techniques. 
CO5: Design, Development and planning of embedded systems-based 
projects. 
 
Computer 
Graphics and 
Animation 
CO1: To provide an overview of the Computer Graphics field. To 
describe the important input & output graphics devices. To understand 
applications of Computer Graphics, different Scanning techniques. 
CO2: Develops theory of 2D, 3D transformation and describes various 
types of 2D, 3D transformations. 
CO3: Learning the basics of 3D Viewing & projections, basics of lights 
and color. 
CO4: To compare different algorithms for removal of hidden lines and 
surfaces. It tells how to design and smooth surfaces. 
CO5: To Interpret the overviews of animation along with its types and 
techniques. 
 
Computer Oriented 
Statistical 
Techniques 
CO1: Able to summarize the information present in the given data set 
and gives an idea around which value the data observation is clustered. 
CO2: Understand the complementary relationship of skewness with 
measures of central tendency and dispersion in describing a set of data. 
CO3: To be able to infer information about a population from samples 
drawn from it. And, to make decisions about populations based on 
sample information. 
CO4: To determine whether the difference between the observed and 
expected values is statistically significant. 
CO5: Able to identify the strength and direction of a linear relationship 
between two variables using correlation and to predict how much a 
dependent variable changes based on adjustments to an independent 
variable using regression. 
 
Core Java 
CO1: To learn program structure and basic concepts of java. 
CO2: To understand and apply OOP techniques to solve real world 
problems. 
CO3: To use and create packages and interfaces in a Java program. 
CO4: To implement Multithreading & exception handling techniques 
in java. 
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
CO5: To design GUI application using Abstract Windows Toolkit. 
 
Software Engineering 
CO1: To learn basic concepts related to requirement engineering, 
different software development models, SRS document. 
CO2: To understand types of critical systems and learn about system 
models.  
CO3: To design and manage the software, different software 
architectural styles.  
CO4: To Verify and validate software and to estimate the cost of 
software. 
CO5: To learn about process improvement and different types of 
software engineering. 
 
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Program Name and 
Semester 
 
Bachelor of Science in Information Technology (B. Sc.IT) 
Semester -V 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
Internet of Things 
CO1: Summarize the basic concepts of designing IOT devices and the 
Internet. 
CO2: Understand how prototypes can be created and electronic 
components required for creating the prototype. 
CO3: Understand prototyping the physical device and program on the 
device using online- programming components and protocols. 
CO4: To know the various techniques for writing embedded programs 
and different business models. 
CO5: To devise methods for mass production of IOT devices and learn 
about Ethics for IOT. 
 
Software Project 
Management 
CO1: To realize Project Management life cycle. To understand the 
various steps in Programme Management and Project Planning. 
CO2: To calculate the Software Effort Estimation.  
CO3: To do Project Planning and Risk assessment 
CO4: To think and analyze how Monitoring and Control can be 
implemented for various software projects. 
CO5: To realize the importance of Working in Teams. 
 
Artificial Intelligence 
CO1: Demonstrate knowledge of the building blocks of AI as presented 
in terms of intelligent agents. 
CO2: Analyze and formalize the problem as a state space, graph, design 
heuristics and select amongst different search or game-based 
techniques to solve them. 
CO3: Design good evaluation functions and strategies for game 
playing. 
CO4: Understand the fundamentals of knowledge representation 
(logic-based, frame- based, semantic nets), inference and theorem 
proving. Know how to build simple knowledge-based systems. 
CO5: Describe and implement several of the major approaches to 
classical 
planning, 
including 
planning 
graphs, 
POP, 
and 
propositionalizing. 
 
Linux System 
Administration 
CO1: Understand the duties of System Administrator, working on 
Command Line, understanding system administrator tasks, managing 
software. 
CO2: Configuring and managing storage, connecting to network, 
working with users, groups and permissions. 
CO3: Securing server with tables, setting up cryptographic services, 
configuring server for files sharing. 
CO4: Configuring DNS, DHCP, Mail Server, Apache. 
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
CO5: Bash shell scripting, high-availability clustering, setting up an 
installation server. 
 
Next Generation 
Technologies 
CO1: To Understand Bif Data Concepts and applications. To 
understand the role of MongoDB as NoSQL Database. 
CO2: To understand MongoDB data model and apply different CRUD 
operations to analyze unstructured data. 
CO3: To learn how data is stored in MongoDB and data writes happen 
using journaling. To list MongoDB’s limitations and the use cases 
where it’s not a good fit. 
CO4: To develop skills to write scripts that create interactive effects on 
websites using jQuery. 
CO5: To create and parse JSON data. 
 
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Program Name and 
Semester 
 
Bachelor of Science in Information Technology (B. Sc.IT) 
Semester -VI 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
Security in Computing CO1: Understand the basic design principles of security and know 
various security models 
CO2: Realise application of Symmetric Key Cryptography, Storage 
and Database Security 
CO3: Learn to design Secure Networks using the connecting devices 
CO4: Analyse the need of Intrusion Detection and Prevention Systems, 
Operating System Security Models. 
CO5: Evaluate feasibility of Virtualization and Cloud Computing for 
different types of data and Designing Secure Web Applications. 
 
Principles of 
Geographic’s 
Information 
Systems 
CO1: To relate the real world and its representation of it using GIS. 
CO2: To understand and manage data and Processing Systems. 
CO3: To analyze Spatial Referencing and Positioning. 
CO4: To analyze Spatial data. 
CO5: To implement maps using QGIS software. 
CO6: To construct and analyze maps based on a particular area. 
 
IT Service 
Management 
CO1: To learn the basics of ITSM, Life Cycle of ITSM and principles 
of Service Strategy.  
CO2: To understand fundamentals of service design, principles, 
processes and challenges faced during service design. 
CO3: To understand fundamentals of service transition, principles, 
processes and challenges faced during service transition. 
CO4: To learn fundamentals of service operations, principles, 
processes and challenges faced during service operation. 
CO5: To understand principles, process of Continual Service 
Improvement and implementation of Continual Service Improvement. 
 
Cyber Laws 
CO1: To learn about Power of Arrest Without Warrant Under the IT 
Act, 2000, Cyber Crime and Criminal justice: Penalties, Adjudication 
and appeals Under the IT Act, 2000. 
CO2: To learn about Contracts in the InfoTech World and Jurisdiction 
in the Cyber World.  
CO3: Implementation of Copyright Protection in the Cyber world. 
CO4: To interpret real problems in the virtual World along with Digital 
Signatures, Certifying Authorities and E-Governance. 
CO5: Protection of cyber consumers in India and The Indian Evidence 
Act of 1872 vs Information Technology act. 
 
Business Intelligence 
CO1: To understand active forms of support for decision making 
based on the systematic adoption of mathematical models. 
CO2: To understand applications of data mining and business 
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
intelligence in the fields like relational marketing, and models like 
salesforce planning. 
CO3: To understand knowledge management and its different 
activities. 
CO4: To create the phases of a data mining process and their 
objectives and the activities of data preparation. 
CO5: To develop models using classification and clustering methods. 
 
