 
  
Programme Outcome  
 
 
Program Name 
Program Outcome 
 
Bachelor of 
Management 
Studies (B.M.S) 
1. To demonstrate a solid understanding of key management concepts, 
theories, and principles across various disciplines. 
2. To apply critical thinking skills to analyse problems, evaluate 
alternatives and make informed decisions 
3. To develop problem solving skills through experiential learning and 
innovative pedagogy to ensure utilisation of knowledge in 
professional careers.  
4. To develop students' attributes and prepare them to take up job in the 
area of finance, marketing & human resources. 
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Program Name and 
Semester 
 
Bachelor of Management Studies (B.M.S) 
Semester -I  
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
Business Economics I 
CO1:  Gain basic knowledge of the operation of the busineses 
economics. 
CO2:  Apply the different concepts of demand, cost and production. 
CO3:  Employ marginal analysis for decision making 
CO4:  Understand and gain analytical skills for understanding market 
structures. 
CO5:  Understand different pricing methods & to gain basic knowledge 
of the operation of the business economics. 
 
Foundation of Human 
Skills  
CO1:  Students will understand and learn personality traits, behavioural 
patterns, different attitudes, types of intelligence, learning theories and 
many interesting models used to understand people and their behaviour. 
CO2:  Raise the student's awareness of the centrality of organisational 
behaviour to understanding organisational functioning, focusing 
particularly on the individual and group/team level and also understand 
organisational processes from the perspectives of individuals and 
organisations. 
CO3:  Study different motivational theories and evaluate motivational 
strategies used in a variety of organizational settings. 
CO4:  Help students understand how to deal with workplace stress and 
cope up with change in an organisation. 
Introduction to 
Financial Accounts 
CO1:  To about accounting principles, accounting concepts and 
conventions 
CO2:  To understand technicalities of financial accounting especially 
how journals and financial statements are prepared. 
CO3: To understand and apply depreciation and Bank Reconciliation 
Statement  
CO4: To demonstrate their knowledge of the fundamental and technical 
concepts in preparation of financial statements. 
Business Law 
CO1: To Learn the provisions of Contract Act, Sales of Goods Act 
CO2: To study provisions of Consumers Protection Act, Negotiable 
Instrument Act. 
CO3: To study the provision under Companies, Act 2013 
CO4: To understand the concept of copyrights, patents and trademarks 
under Intellectual property right. 
 
Business Statistics 
CO1: To study the method of collection data, Types of data, 
Presentation of data and the Measures of Central Tendency and 
properties related to it. 
CO2: To understand the concept of Measures of Dispersion, Co-
relation and Linear Regression and properties related to it  
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
CO3: To understand the concept of Time Series and Index Numbers 
and properties related to it  
CO4: To understand the concept of Probability and Decision Theory 
and properties related to it. 
Foundation Course- I 
CO1: To have an overview of Indian society, its regional and 
demographic variations 
CO2: To understand the concept of disparity arsing due to gender 
inequality and other linguistic differences. 
CO3: To know duties and values to strengthen the societal values 
CO4: To understand Indian constitution and other political processes 
CO5: To have an overview of Indian society, its regional and 
demographic variations 
Business 
Communication-I 
CO1: To understand the process of communication and its application 
in real life 
CO2: To be able to understand the importance of medium in the 
effective communication and feedback 
CO3: To understand various barriers and ways to overcome them for 
effective communication. 
CO4: To know various channels of communication/ Verbal nonverbal 
communication/ Different modes of communication /E commerce 
CO5: To know about Business Ethics and its importance in real life 
situation 
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Program Name and 
Semester 
 
Bachelor of Management Studies (B.M.S) 
Semester -II  
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
Foundation Course-II 
CO1: Understand the concepts of liberalization, privatization and 
globalization and its effect on shaping Indian economy. 
CO2: Comprehend the growth of information technology and 
communication and its impact on everyday life. 
CO3: Develop a brief understanding about issues related to 
constitutional rights and an insight into the fundamental rights with 
respect to social, economic and political rights. 
CO4: Recognizing the importance of environment and allied problems. 
CO5: Identify the causes of stress and conflict and understand the 
problem of aggression and prejudice in society. 
 
Business 
Communication- II 
CO1: To familiarize the learners to various communication 
technologies used to overcome communication barriers 
CO2: To train the students to be comfortable with and know about 
various types and the importance of group communication 
CO3: To enhance written language proficiency in business 
correspondence 
CO4: To acquaint the students with report writing and the various types 
of reports 
 
Principles of 
Marketing 
CO1: To understand the scope, nature and characteristics of Marketing. 
CO2: Impact of micro & macro environment on market & factors 
affecting. 
CO3: To understand the components of marketing mix. 
CO4: TO understand in detail STP & current trends in marketing. 
 
Industrial Law 
CO1: To learn the different provisions related to Industrial relations 
and Industrial Disputes.  
CO2: To understand the currents Industrial scenario related to Health, 
Safety and Welfare.  
CO3: To Implement social legislation provisions in the practical Life.  
CO4: To acquire law related to compensation Management. 
 
Business 
Mathematics 
CO1: To study Elementary Financial Concepts like Interest, Annuity, 
Depreciation, Function. 
CO2: To understand the concept of Matrices and Determinants and 
various properties related to it. 
CO3: To understand the concept of Derivatives and application of 
Derivatives and various properties related to it. 
CO4: To understand the concept of Numerical Interpolation and 
properties related to it. 
 
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
Principles of 
Management 
 
O1: To understand the basic concepts and theories of Management. 
CO2: Understand the process and theories of management's functions: 
planning and decision making, its process, elements and techniques in 
detail. 
CO3: To understand the functions of Organizing. Study various 
organizational structures. Understand span f control and delegation. 
CO4: Evaluate leadership styles to anticipate the consequences of each 
leadership style. learning and understanding the process of Directing, 
Coordination and control. Gather and analyse both qualitative and 
quantitative information to isolate issues and formulate best control 
methods. 
 
Business 
Environment 
CO1: To understand business environmental concepts inclined with 
internal and external environment and effectively conducting SWOT 
analysis of different business entities. 
CO2: Understanding the Political and Legal environmental framework 
in India for PESTLE analysis. 
CO3: To conduct an integrated analysis of the modern trends on social, 
cultural, technological front & understanding the competitive 
advantage of business.  
CO4: Challenges faced while conducting International Business and 
investment opportunities for Indian industry with case studies. 
 
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Program Name and 
Semester 
 
Bachelor of Management Studies (B.M.S) 
Semester -III 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
Accounting for 
Managerial Decision 
CO1: To acquaint management learners with basic accounting 
fundamentals.   
CO2: To develop financial analysis skills among learners.  
CO3: The course aims at explaining the core concepts of business 
finance and its importance in managing a business. 
 
Information 
Technology in 
Business Management 
O 1 To learn basic concepts of Information Technology, its support and 
role in Management, for managers. 
CO 2 Module II comprises of practical hands-on training required for 
office automation. It is expected to have practical sessions of the latest 
MS-Office software. 
CO 3 To understand basic concepts of Email, Internet and websites, 
domains and security therein.  
CO 4 To recognize security aspects of IT in business, highlighting 
electronic transactions, advanced security features. 
 
Environmental 
Management 
CO1: Basic concepts related to composition of environment. 
CO2: Degradation of the environment through depletion of resources 
such as air, water and soil, which is deterioration of ecosystems. 
CO3: Sustainability is a broad discipline, giving students insights for 
ecological 
balance. 
CO4: Non-Conventional energy sources are gaining importance due to 
high demand of conventional energies. 
 
Business Planning & 
Entrepreneurship 
Management 
CO1: Entrepreneurship is one of the major focus areas of the discipline 
of Management. This course introduces Entrepreneurship to budding 
managers.   
CO2: To develop entrepreneurs &to prepare students to take the 
responsibility of full line of management function of a company with 
special reference to SME sector. 
 
Strategic Management O1: The objective of this course is to learn the management policies 
and strategies at every Level to develop conceptual skills in this area as 
well as their application in the corporate world.  
CO2: The focus is to critically examine the management of the entire 
enterprise from the Top Management viewpoint.  
CO3: This course deals with corporate level Policy & Strategy 
formulation areas. This course aims to develop conceptual skills in this 
area and their application in the corporate world. 
 
Consumer Behavior 
CO1: The basic objective of this course is to develop an understanding 
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
(Marketing) 
of the consumer decision-making process and its applications in the 
marketing function of firms. 
CO2: This course is meant to equip undergraduate students with basic 
knowledge about issues and dimensions of Consumer Behaviour.  
CO3 Students are expected to develop the skill of understanding and 
analyzing consumer information and using it to create consumer-
oriented marketing strategies. 
 
Advertising 
(Marketing) 
 
CO1: To understand & examine the growing importance of advertising.  
CO2: To understand the construction of an effective advertisement.   
CO3: To understand the role of advertising in contemporary scenario. 
CO4: To understand the future and career in advertising. 
 
Corporate Finance 
(Finance) 
CO 1 The objectives of developing a conceptual framework of finance 
function and to acquaint the participants with the tool's techniques and 
process of financial management in the realm of financial decision 
making. 
CO 2 The course aims to explain the core concepts of corporate finance 
and its importance in managing a business.   
CO 3 To provide understanding of nature, importance, structure of 
corporate finance related areas and to impart knowledge regarding 
source of finance for a business. 
 
Basics Financial 
Services 
(Finance) 
 
CO1: The course aims at explaining the core concepts of business 
finance and its importance in managing a business. 
CO2: The objectives of developing a conceptual framework of finance. 
function and to acquaint the participants with the tools, types, 
instruments of financial system in the realm of Indian Financial Market. 
 
Recruitment & 
Selection 
(Human Resources) 
CO1: The objective is to familiarize the students with concepts and 
principles, procedure of Recruitment and Selection in an organization.  
CO2: To give an in-depth insight into various aspects of Human 
Resource management and make them acquainted with practical 
aspects of the subject. 
 
Motivation & 
Leadership 
(Human Resources) 
O1: To gain knowledge of the leadership strategies for motivating 
people 
and 
changing 
organizations.  
CO2: To study how leaders facilitate group development and problem 
solving and work through problems and issues as well as transcend 
differences.  
CO3: To acquaint the students about practical approaches to 
Motivation and Leadership & its application in the Indian context. 
 
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Program Name and 
Semester 
 
Bachelor of Management Studies (B.M.S) 
Semester -IV 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
Production & Total 
Quality Management 
CO1. To acquaint learners with the basic management decisions with 
respect to production and quality management 
CO2. To make the learners understand the designing aspect of 
production systems 
CO3. To enable the learners, apply what they have learnt theoretically. 
 
Business Research 
Methods 
CO 1 To inculcate the analytical abilities and research skills among the 
students. 
CO 2 To provide hands on experience and learning in Business 
Research. 
 
Information 
Technology 
CO1. To understand managerial decision-making and to develop 
perspective of major functional areas of MIS. 
CO2. To provide conceptual study of ERP, Supply Chain 
Management, CRM, key issues in implementation. This module 
provide understanding about emerging MIS technologies like ERP, 
CRM, SCM and trends in enterprise application. 
CO3. To learn and understand relationship between database 
management and data warehouse approaches the requirement and 
application of data warehouse. 
CO4. To learn outsourcing concepts. BPO/KPO industries, their 
structures, Cloud computing concepts.  
 
Business Economics 
II 
CO1. To understand basics of Macroeconomics. 
CO2.To understand the concept like Inflation, Money and Monetary 
policy. 
CO3. To understand the fiscal policy. 
CO4. to understand international trade and its importance. 
 
Foundation Course - IV CO1. To understand significance of ethics & ethical practices in 
businesses which are indispensable for progress of a country 
CO2. To learn the applicability of ethics in functional areas like 
marketing, finance and human resource management 
CO3. To understand the emerging need and growing importance of 
good governance and CSR by organisations 
CO4. To study the ethical business practices, CSR and Corporate 
Governance practiced by various organisations. 
 
Auditing 
(Finance) 
CO1. To enable students get acquaint with the various concepts of 
auditing. 
CO2. To ensure students understand and practice the various 
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
techniques of auditing while managing their finances. 
 
Financial Institution 
and Markets 
(Finance) 
 
CO 1: The Course aims at providing the students basic knowledge 
about the structure, role and functioning of financial institutions and 
markets in the financial system in India. 
CO 2: To inculcate understanding relating to managing of financial 
system. 
 
Rural Marketing 
(Marketing) 
CO 1 The objective of this course is to explore the students to the 
Agriculture and Rural Marketing environment so that they can 
understand consumer's and marketing characteristics of the same for 
understanding and contributing to the emerging challenges in the 
upcoming global economic scenario. emerging challenges in the 
upcoming global economic scenario. 
Integrated Marketing 
Communication 
(Marketing) 
CO1. To equip the students with knowledge about the nature, purpose 
and complex construction in the planning and execution of an effective 
Integrated Marketing Communication (IMC) program. 
CO2. To understand the various tools of IMC and the importance of co-
ordinating them for an effective marketing communication program. 
 
Training and 
Development 
(Human Resources) 
CO1. This paper is not pure academic oriented, but practice based. It 
has been designed, keeping in view the needs of the organizations. 
Successful managerial performance depends on the individual’s ability 
to observe, interpret the issues and modify his approach and behaviour. 
All organizations need to pay adequate attention to equip their 
employees. Rapid progress in technology has changed not only in the 
physical facilities but also in the abstract qualities required of the men 
who are using them. This paper will attempt to orient the students to 
tailor themselves to meet the specific needs of the organizations in 
training and development activities. 
 
Change Management 
(Human Resources) 
CO1. The objective of this paper is to prepare students as organizational 
change facilitators using the knowledge and techniques of behavioural 
science. 
 
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Program Name and 
Semester 
 
Bachelor of Management Studies (B.M.S) 
Semester -V 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
Logistics & Supply 
Chain Management 
CO1: - To provide students with basic understanding of concepts of 
logistics and supply chain management  
CO2: To introduce students to the key activities performed by the 
logistics function. 
CO3: To provide an insight into the nature of supply chain, its functions 
and supply chain systems 
CO4: - To understand global trends in logistics and supply chain 
management. 
 
Corporate 
Communication & 
Public Relations 
CO1: To provide the students with basic understanding of the concepts 
of corporate communication and public relations. 
CO2: To introduce the various elements of corporate communication 
and consider their roles in managing organizations.   
Co3: To examine how various elements of corporate communication 
must be coordinated to communicate effectively.   
CO4: To develop critical understanding of the different practices 
associated with corporate communication. 
 
Wealth Management 
(Finance) 
CO1: To provide an overview of various aspects related to wealth 
management.  
CO2: To study the relevance and importance of Insurance in wealth 
management. 
CO3: To acquaint the learners with issues related to taxation in wealth 
management. 
CO4: To understand various components of retirement planning. 
 
Investment Analysis 
& Portfolio 
Management 
(Finance) 
 
CO1: To acquaint the learners with various concepts of finance. 
CO2: To understand the terms which are often confronted while 
reading newspaper, magazines etc for better correlation with the 
practical world. 
CO3: To understand various models and techniques of security and 
portfolio analysis. 
 
Risk Management 
(Finance) 
 
CO1: To familiarize the student with the fundamental aspects of risk 
management and control. 
CO2: To give a comprehensive overview of risk governance and 
assurance with special reference to insurance sector. 
CO3: To introduce the basic concepts, functions, process, techniques 
of risk management. 
 
Direct Taxes 
(Finance) 
O1: To understand the provisions of determining residential status of 
individual. 
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
 
CO2: To study various heads of income. 
CO3: To study deductions from total income. 
CO4: To compute taxable income of Individuals. 
 
Services Marketing 
(Marketing) 
CO1: To understand distinctive features of services and key elements 
in services marketing. 
CO2: To provide insight into ways to improve service quality and 
productivity. 
CO3: To understand marketing of different services in Indian context. 
 
Sales & Distribution 
Management 
(Marketing)   
CO1: To develop understanding of the sales & distribution processes 
in organizations. 
CO2: To get familiarized with concepts, approaches and practical 
aspects of the key decision-making variables in sales management and 
distribution channel management. 
 
E-Commerce & 
Digital Marketing 
(Marketing) 
CO1; To understand increasing significance of E-Commerce and its 
applications in Business and Various Sectors.  
CO2: To provide an insight on Digital Marketing activities on various 
Social Media platforms and its emerging significance in Business. 
CO3: To understand Latest Trends and Practices in E-Commerce and 
Digital Marketing, along with its Challenges and Opportunities for an 
Organisation. 
 
Customer 
Relationship 
Management 
(Marketing) 
CO1: To understand concept of Customer Relationship Management 
(CRM) and implementation of Customer Relationship Management.  
CO2: To provide insight into CRM marketing initiatives, customer 
service and designing CRM strategy. 
CO3: To understand new trends in CRM, challenges and opportunities 
for organizations. 
 
Finance for Human 
Professional and 
Compensation 
Management 
(Human Resource) 
CO1: To orient HR professionals with financial concepts to enable 
them to make prudent HR decisions. 
CO2: To understand the various compensation plans.  
CO3: To study the issues related to compensation management and 
understand the legal framework of compensation management. 
 
Strategic Human 
Resource 
Management & HR 
Policies 
(Human Resource) 
CO1: To understand human resource management from a strategic 
perspective.  
CO2: To link the HRM functions to corporate strategies to understand 
HR as a strategic resource.  
CO3: To understand the relationship between strategic human resource 
management and organizational performance.  
CO4: To apply the theories and concepts relevant to strategic human 
resource management in contemporary organizations. 
CO5: To understand the purpose and process of developing Human 
Resource Policies. 
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
Performance 
Management and 
Career Planning 
(Human Resource) 
CO1: To understand the concept of performance management in 
organizations. 
CO2: To review performance appraisal systems. 
CO3: To understand the significance of career planning and practices. 
 
Industrial Relations 
(Human Resource) 
CO1: To understand the concept of performance management in 
organizations  
CO2: To review performance appraisal systems  
CO3: To understand the significance of career planning and practices. 
 
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Program Name and 
Semester 
 
Bachelor of Management Studies (B.M.S) 
Semester -VI  
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
Operations Research 
CO1: To help students to understand operations research 
methodologies. 
CO2: To help students to solve various problems practically. 
CO3: To make students proficient in case analysis and interpretation. 
 
Project Work 
CO1: To familiarize students with the basics of research and research 
process. 
CO2: To inculcate the element of research analysis and scientific 
temperament challenging the potential of learners as regards his/ her 
eagerness to enquire and ability to interpret aspect of the studies. 
 
Innovative Financial 
Services 
(Finance) 
CO1: To familiarize the learners with the fundamental aspects of 
various issues associated with various Financial Services.  
CO2: To give a comprehensive overview of emerging financial 
services in the light of globalization.  
CO3: To introduce the basic concepts, functions, processes, techniques 
and create an awareness of the role, functions and functioning of 
financial services. 
 
Project Management 
(Finance) 
CO1: This course's objective is to familiarize learners with the 
fundamental aspects of various issues associated with Project 
Management.  
CO2: To give a comprehensive overview of Project Management as a 
separate area of Management.  
CO3: To introduce the basic concepts, functions, processes, techniques 
and create an awareness of the role, functions and functioning of 
Project Management. 
 
Strategic Financial 
Management 
(Finance) 
CO1: To match the needs of current market scenario and upgrade the 
learner’s skills and knowledge for long term sustainability  
CO2: Changing scenario in Banking Sector and the inclination of 
learners towards choosing banking as a career option has made study 
of financial management in banking sector inevitable.  
CO3: To acquaint learners with contemporary issues related to 
financial management. 
Indirect Taxes 
(Finance) 
CO1: To understand the basics of GST 
CO2: To study the registration and computation of GST 
CO3: To acquaint the students with filing of returns in GST. 
 
Brand Management 
(Marketing) 
CO1: To understand the meaning and significance of Brand 
Management. 
CO2: To Know how to build, sustain and grow brands. 
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
CO3: To know the various sources of brand equity. 
 
Retail Management 
(Marketing) 
CO1: To familiarize the students with retail management concepts and 
operations. 
CO2: To provide understanding of retail management and types of 
retailers 
CO3: To develop an understanding of retail management terminology 
including merchandize management, store management and retail 
strategy. 
CO4: To acquaint the students with legal and ethical aspects of retail 
management. 
CO5: To create awareness about emerging trends in retail management. 
 
Media Planning and 
Management 
(Marketing) 
CO1: To understand Media Planning, Strategy and Management with 
reference to current business scenario. 
CO2: To know the basic characteristics of all media to ensure most 
effective use of advertising budget. 
CO3: To provide an insight on Media Planning, Budgeting, Scheduling 
and Evaluating the Different Media Buys. 
 
International 
Marketing 
(Marketing) 
CO1: To understand International Marketing, its Advantages and 
Challenges.  
CO2: To provide an insight on the dynamics of International Marketing 
Environment. 
CO3: To understand the relevance of International Marketing Mix 
decisions and recent developments in Global Market. 
 
Organizational 
Development 
(Human Resource) 
CO1: To understand the concept of Organizational Development and 
its Relevance in the organization. 
CO2: To Study the Issues and Challenges of OD while undergoing 
Changes  
CO3: To get an Understanding of Phases of OD Programme. 
CO4: To Study the OD Intervention to meet the Challenges faced in 
the Organization. 
CO5: To get an Insight into Ethical Issues in OD. 
HRM In Global 
Perspective 
 
CO1: To introduce the students to the study and practice of IHRM. 
CO2: To understand the concepts, theoretical framework and issues of 
HRM in Global Perspective. 
CO3: To get insights of the concepts of Expatriates and Repatriates.  
CO4: To find out the impact of cross culture on Human Resource 
Management. 
CO5: To provide information about Global Workforce Management  
CO6: To study International HRM Trends and Challenges. 
 
Human Resource 
Management in 
Service Sector 
CO1: To understand the concept and growing importance of HRM in 
service sector 
CO2: To understand how to manage human resources in service sector 
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
Management 
(Human Resource) 
CO3: To understand the significance of human element in creating 
customer satisfaction through service quality  
CO4: To understand the Issues and Challenges of HR in various service 
sectors. 
 
Indian Ethos in 
Management 
(Human Resource) 
CO1: To understand the concept of Indian Ethos in Management  
CO2: To link the Traditional Management System to Modern 
Management System 
CO3: To understand the Techniques of Stress Management 
CO4: To understand the Evolution of Learning Systems in India. 
 
 
