 
  
Programme Outcome  
 
 
Program Name 
Program Outcome 
 
Bachelor of 
Commerce in 
Banking and 
Insurance 
(B.B.I) 
PO1: To have basic institutional and practical knowledge supported by text 
books including up-to- date information in the field of Banking and Insurance. 
PO2: To have knowledge of banking, insurance and capital market law 
besides fundamental legal knowledge. 
PO3: To have the ability to use basic theoretical and practical knowledge 
gained in the field in an advanced education level of the same field or at the 
same level of another field. 
PO4: To express their opinions about banking and insurance in written and 
oral form, based on the basic knowledge and skills they acquire. 
 
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Program Name and 
Semester 
 
Bachelor of Commerce in Banking and Insurance (B.B.I)   
Semester -I 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
EMFS (Environmental 
management of 
financial services) 
CO1: To overview different kinds of financial services.  
CO2: To learn the role of Banking and Insurance for economic growth. 
CO3: To develop policies for Banking & Insurance Companies. 
CO4: To understand the regulatory norms for Banking & Insurance 
Sector. 
 
Principles Of 
Management 
CO1: To be aware towards varied management principles and practices. 
CO2: To detail the different functions of management such as planning, 
organizing, staffing, directing, and controlling. 
CO3: To deal with organization structure and its hierarchy. 
CO4: To discuss about Indian leaders and International leaders. 
 
Financial Accounting 
CO1: To define bookkeeping and accounting. 
CO2: To understand the general purposes and functions of accounting 
CO3: To find the differences between management and financial 
accounting. 
CO4: To describe the main elements of financial accounting 
information assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses. 
CO5: To identify the main financial statements and their purposes. 
 
Business 
Communication 
CO1: To familiarize the learners to various communication 
technologies used to overcome communication barriers. 
CO2: To train the students to be comfortable with and know about 
various types and the importance of group communication. 
CO3: To enhance written language proficiency in business 
correspondence. 
CO4: To acquaint the students with report writing and the various types 
of report. 
 
Business Economics 
CO1: To understand how households (demand) and businesses 
(supply) interact in various market structures to determine price and 
quantity of a good produced. 
CO2: To relate changes in the price of a good affect total revenue and 
total expenditure depending on the price elasticity of demand for the 
good. 
CO3: To interpret the links between production costs and the economic 
models of supply. 
CO4: To apply economic reasoning to individual and firm behavior in 
different market structures. 
CO5: To understand the major pricing technique in different market 
structures and the implications. 
 
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
Quantitate Methods-I 
CO1: To understand probability theory and its relation to general 
statistics. 
CO2: To identify the importance, techniques and biases of quantitative 
methods in context. 
CO3: To obtain point and interval predictions as well as forecasts. 
CO4: To construct and interpret various statistical hypothesis tests. 
CO5: To critically evaluate regression (model selection). 
 
Foundation Course- 1 
CO1: To have an overview of Indian society, its regional and 
demographic variations. 
CO2: To understand the history of women and various practices which 
are going on with women since ages. 
CO3: To compare the concept of disparity arising due to gender 
inequality and other linguistic differences. 
CO4: To evaluate the Indian political system and Indian constitution. 
 
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Program Name and 
Semester 
 
Bachelor of Commerce in Banking and Insurance (B.B.I)   
Semester -II 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
Principles and 
Practices of Banking 
& Insurance 
CO1: To understand the functions of Banking. 
CO2: To understand Banking scenario in India.  
CO3: To identify kinds of business risks. 
CO4: To be able to learn about growth of Insurance Business. 
 
Business Law 
CO1: To demonstrate an understanding of the Legal Environment of 
Business.  
CO2: To apply basic legal knowledge to business transactions. 
CO3: To communicate effectively using standard business and legal 
terminology. 
 
Financial Accounting 
- II 
CO1: To understand Basic Accounting Concepts & principle. 
CO2: To gain knowledge about the double entry system of accounting 
& rules of Debit & credit. 
CO3: To relate accounts of a sole trading/partnership firm up to 
finalization of accounts. 
CO4: To classify Income & Expenditure into Capital & Revenue. 
CO5: To evaluate value stock and understand hire purchase system of 
sales. 
 
Business 
Communication -II 
CO1: To familiarize the learners to various communication 
technologies used to overcome communication barriers. 
CO2: To train the students to be comfortable with and know about 
various types and the importance of communication. 
CO3: To enhance written language proficiency in business 
correspondence. 
CO4: To acquaint the students with report writing and the various types 
of reports. 
 
Foundation Course - 
II 
CO1: To understand the concepts of liberalization, privatization and 
globalization and its effect on shaping Indian economy. 
CO2: To comprehend the growth of information technology and 
communication and its impact on everyday life. 
CO3: To develop a brief understanding about issues related to 
constitutional rights and an insight into the fundamental rights with 
respect to social, economic and political rights. 
CO4:  To recognizing the importance of environment and allied 
problems. 
CO5: To identify the causes of stress and conflict and understand the 
problem of aggression and prejudice in society. 
CO6: To develop effective methods to cope and manage individual 
stress and resolve Conflicts. 
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
 
Organizational 
Behavior 
CO1: To analyze five conceptual anchors of OB. 
CO2: To identify personal dimensıons of personality, Job satisfaction, 
motivation and learning. 
CO3: To analyze the group formation and management process.  
CO4: To compare group and group dynamics. 
CO5: To examine group types and team working techniques. 
 
Quantitative Methods 
II 
CO1: To understand Hypothesis and various linear programming 
techniques. 
CO2: To evaluate its application in Business and economics. 
CO3: To understand statistical application in Investment management. 
CO4: To implement various economic indicators. 
 
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Program Name and 
Semester 
 
Bachelor of Commerce in Banking and Insurance (B.B.I)   
Semester -III 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
Financial Markets 
CO1: To understand the history of Indian financial system and its 
structure as well the establishment of Development banks. 
CO2: To gain Knowledge about Primary and Secondary markets, 
Insight about Regulatory Framework for Financial Market and Various 
stock Exchange. 
CO3: To understand Commodity Market, Its Structure and the brief 
about investing in commodities market. 
CO4: To evaluate Derivatives Market. 
 
Direct Taxation 
CO1: To acquaint the students with basic principles underlying the 
provisions of direct and indirect tax laws. 
CO2: To develop a broad understanding of the tax laws and accepted 
tax practices. 
CO3: To introduce practical aspects of tax planning as an important 
managerial decision-making process. 
CO4: To demonstrate progressive learning of various tax issues. 
 
Information 
Technology 
Co1: To understand the framework of Electronic commerce. 
CO2: To analyze the E- Banking and Electronic payment system.  
CO3: To gain complete knowledge of MS office. 
CO4: To understand various laws regarding cyber security. 
 
FC- Overview Of 
Banking Sector 
CO1: To understand the banking sector. 
CO2: To understand various relations between banker and its 
customers. 
CO3: To evaluate the technology in banking sector. 
CO4: To understand the concept of microfinance and financial 
inclusion. 
 
Financial 
Management 
CO1: To understand about Working Capital Financing.  
CO2: To formulate Cash Management Technique.  
CO3: To identify different types of Budget. 
CO4: To be able to calculate different types of Leverage. 
 
Management 
Accounting 
CO1: To understand role and importance of management accounting 
framework. 
CO2: To understand and analysis corporate financial statements. 
CO3: To analyze the nature and projection of working and operating 
cycle. 
CO4: To evaluate various factors and determinants of dividend policy 
and management of profits. 
 
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
Organization Behavior CO1: To highlight the role of human resources in success of an 
enterprise. 
CO2: To understand various processes involved in increasing the value 
of human assets. 
CO3: To understand ways for maintaining high employee’s morale. 
CO4: To maintain sound human relations by sustaining and improving 
the various conditions and facilities. 
 
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Program Name and 
Semester 
 
Bachelor of Commerce in Banking and Insurance (B.B.I)   
Semester -IV 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
Financial Management 
- II 
CO1: To understand about Working Capital Financing. 
CO2: To formulate Cash Management Techniques. 
CO3: To identify different types of Budget. 
CO4: To be able to calculate different types of Leverage. 
 
Cost Accounting 
CO1: To understand to Cost Accounting. 
CO2: To classify Cost and Cost Sheet.  
CO3: To standardize Costing. 
CO4: To understand to Marginal Costing. 
 
Entrepreneurship 
Management 
CO1: To understand the concept of Entrepreneur and Entrepreneurship.  
CO2: To understand various aspects of Business planning. 
CO3: To compare various domains of Business. 
CO4: To interpret new and evolving concepts in Entrepreneurship. 
 
Information 
Technology In 
Banking& Insurance –
II 
CO1: To understand the various E-banking models. 
CO2: To relate the induction of Techno management. 
CO3: To devise the application of IT in Banking. 
CO4: To implement advanced MS-Office. 
 
Foundation Course – IV CO1: To help students understand various procedure involved in 
insurance depending upon the market value. 
CO2: To train students to get comfortable with various aspects of 
insurance and its usage.  
CO3: To help students understand the various aspects of general 
insurance industry. 
CO4: To help students understand how insurance helps the economy. 
 
Corporate & 
Securities Law 
CO1: To understand company law. 
CO2: To summarize SCRA. 
CO3: To articulate the rules and regulations of SEBI. 
CO4: To relate Depository Act. 
 
Business Economics - 
II 
CO1: To understand why household, business, government and global 
behavior determine the aggregate demand for goods and services. 
CO2: To relate the basics of national income accounting. 
CO3: To explain public goods, externalities, and government 
interventions using public finance theories. 
 
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Program Name and 
Semester 
 
Bachelor of Commerce in Banking and Insurance (B.B.I)   
Semester -V 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
International Banking 
& Finance 
CO1: Fundamentals of International Finance. 
CO2: International Capital Market. 
CO3: Foreign Exchange Market. 
CO4: Risk Management. 
CO5: International Banking and Operation. 
 
Research 
Methodology 
CO1: To understand a general definition of research design, process of 
designing a research study from its inception to its report. 
CO2: To be familiar with conducting a literature review for a scholarly 
educational study. 
CO3: To understand the link between quantitative research questions 
and data collection and how research questions are operationalized in 
educational practice. 
CO4: To use statistical and econometrical models and tools to analyses 
the data. 
CO5: To give a full shape to a research report, e.g., Interpretation, 
Layout, References and Appendix. 
 
Auditing -1 
CO1: To understand recollects Vouching, Verification, internal check, 
control and audit. 
CO2: To understands auditing of companies and appointment of 
company auditor. 
CO3: To gain knowledge of audit of Bank and Insurance. 
CO4: To acquires information on types of audit and its needs. 
CO5: To acquires knowledge on verification and vouching. 
 
Strategic Management CO1: To identify the different levels of Strategy, its importance, and 
process and concepts. 
CO2: To understand economic, political, social, technological, legal 
and ecological Facet of strategic environment. 
CO3: To formulate mission vision and goals of their specific 
organization and to understand integration, disinvestment and 
downsizing. 
CO4: To be able to formulate strategies in a creative and innovative 
manner and to be able to evaluate Bench marking, to do performance 
gap analysis, Responsibility centres, ROI and budgeting. 
 
Financial Services 
Management 
CO1: To understand the concept of financial services. 
CO2: To understand the basic concepts of principles of finance. 
CO3: To devise different sources of finance. 
CO4: To evaluate the concept of Housing finance and Consumer 
finance. 
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
 C05: To make the analysis of books of accounts and statements. 
 
Business Ethics & 
Corporate 
Governance 
CO1: To devise the applicability of ethics in business and its necessity 
to adhere to those ethics. 
CO2: To gain knowledge on corporate governance and code of conduct 
of business house. 
CO3: To understand the importance of CSR. 
CO4: To Analyze the different cases of corruption in different levels. 
 
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Program Name and 
Semester 
 
Bachelor of Commerce in Banking and Insurance (B.B.I)   
Semester -VI 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
Central Banking 
CO1: To understand the rationale & functions of Central Bank. 
CO2: To identify the scope of Central banking in India. 
CO3: To learn the objectives of Monetary Policy & Credit Policy. 
CO4: To Link the functioning of Central bank to Financial Stability. 
 
Human Resource 
Management 
CO1: To understand the role of human resource in success of an 
enterprise. 
CO2: To relate various processes involved in increasing the value of 
human assets.  
CO3: To Devise ways for maintaining high employee morale. 
CO4: To understand as to how to sustain sound human relations by 
improving various conditions and facilities in an organization. 
 
Auditing – II 
CO1: To recollect Vouching, Verification, internal check, control and 
audit.  
CO2: To understands auditing of companies and appointment of 
company auditor. 
CO3: To gain knowledge of audit of Bank and Insurance. 
CO4: To acquire information on types of audit and its needs. 
CO5: To acquires knowledge on verification and vouching. 
 
Turnaround 
Management 
CO1: To understand how to handle business. 
CO2: To understand the Industrial Sickness and how its industry 
becomes sick. 
CO3: To know the different turnaround strategies to overcome sickness 
and to implement business process re-structuring in sick unit. 
CO4: To know the recent trends in business scenario. 
 
International Business 
CO1: To understand the International Trade- Its Growing Importance 
and MNC. 
CO2: To relate Institutional support like IMF, ILO, WTO. 
CO3: To Differentiate between International Human resource and 
Domestic business, Expatriation and Repatriation. 
CO4: To export and import, Its Methods and quality. 
CO5: To export and import Procedure /Foreign Trade policy. 
 
 
