 
  
 
 
Program Name : Bachelor of Science In Data Science (B.Sc.DS) 
Program Outcomes
 


PO1: Build a strong foundation of statistics for data science.  
PO2: Use all the features and new updates of Python and R for data science.  
PO3: Perform scientific and technical computing using the Python SciPy 
package and its sub packages Integrate, Optimize, Statistics, IO, and Weave.  
PO4: Gain expertise in mathematical computing using the NumPy and Scikit-
Learn package.  
PO5: Gain an in-depth understanding of data structure and data manipulation.  
PO6: Understand and use linear and non-linear regression models and 
classification techniques for data analysis. 
PO7: Obtain a comprehensive knowledge of supervised and unsupervised 
learning models such as linear regression, logistic regression, clustering, 
dimensionality reduction, K-NN and pipeline. 
PO8: Master the concepts recommendation engine, time series modelling, 
gain practical mastery over principles, algorithms, and applications of 
Machine Learning. 
PO9: Learn to analyse data using Tableau and Power BI and become 
proficient in building interactive dashboards.  
PO10: Understand deep reinforcement learning techniques applied in Natural 
Language Processing.  
PO11: Understand the different components of the Hadoop ecosystem and 
learn to work with HBase, its architecture and data storage, learning the 
difference between HBase and RDBMS, and use Hive and Impala for 
partitioning.  
PO12: Understand Map Reduce and its characteristics and learn how to ingest 
data using Sqoop and Flume. 
 
  
Course Outcomes  
 
 
Program Name and 
Semester 
 
Bachelor of Science in Data Science (B.Sc.DS) 
Semester -I  
 
Course Name 
Course Outcomes 
Descriptive Statistics 
CO1: To understand the use and importance of statistical data by 
tabulating and implementing sampling methods. 
CO2: Able to identify association between the variables as well as 
Computing Consistent and in Consistent data. 
CO3: Able to Compute level of measures and apply as well as interpret 
data into graphs. 
CO4: Apply measure of central tendency to minimize the sum of 
squared deviation. 
CO5: Able to understand the basic assumption behind regression 
analysis and determine the model is significance as well as able to apply 
various techniques for the modelling. 
 
Introduction to 
Programming 
CO1: Proficiency in using and applying various data types including 
string, array list, tuple and dictionary. 
CO2: Ability to use regular expressions to perform Complex operations 
in less Code. 
CO3: Learning to make use of date and time in Python for various 
applications. 
CO4: Proficiency in using IPython architecture for Data Science 
Applications. 
CO5: Knowledge about the use of various data science tools. 
 
Web Technology 
CO1: Understand the meaning of the basic terminologies of web 
technology and explore, use the HTML5 Concepts. Understand the 
basic requirements of web design. 
CO2: Understand and use the Page layout, Navigation, Tables, Forms 
and Media features of HTML5. 
CO3: Understand and use Cascading Style sheet for beatifying the web 
pages. 
CO4: Implement Java Script for validation of user forms in web pages. 
CO5: To design the technique of transmitting data between a server and 
web application using JSON. 
 
Business 
Communication and 
Information Ethics 
CO1: Communicate effectively in non-verbal way, draft and write 
effective business letters. 
CO2: Effectively carryout Communication activities of business by 
following email etiquettes, drafting memos. 
CO3: Write elegant business reports and prepare user instruction 
manual. 
CO4: Apply information ethics in all walks of life. 
CO5: Become a good Communicator in life. 
Precalculus 
CO1: Apply the knowledge of numbers, graph and functions in real life. 
 
  
Course Outcomes  
 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcomes 
CO2: Apply trigonometry in modelling real life problems.  
CO3: Use analytic trigonometry and inverse circular functions to solve 
a variety of problems. 
CO4: Apply complex numbers theory to different domains, use vectors 
and matrices to solve real life problems. 
CO5: Identify different types of conics from equations, understand 
sequences and series and basics of limits and derivatives. 
 
 
  
Course Outcomes  
s 
 
Program Name and 
Semester 
 
Bachelor of Science in Data Science (B.Sc.DS) 
Semester -II 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcomes 
Probability and 
Distributions 
CO1: Organize, manage and present data. 
CO2: Analyse statistical data graphically using frequency 
distributions and cumulative frequency distributions. 
CO3: Use the basic probability rules, including additive and 
multiplicative laws, using the terms, independent and mutually 
exclusive events. 
CO4: Translate real-world problems into probability models. 
CO5: Derive the probability density function of transformation of 
random variables.  
CO6: Calculate probabilities and derive the marginal and 
conditional distributions of bivariate random variables. 
Database 
Management 
CO1: Students should be able to evaluate business information 
problem and find the requirements of a problem in terms of data. 
CO2: Students should be able to draw database design in logical 
structure and can identify the entities which exist in a system 
CO3: Students should be able to construct normalized database and 
functional dependencies between attributes and relational algebra 
queries 
CO4: Students should be able to design the database schema with 
the use of appropriate data types for storage of data in database. 
CO5: Students should be able to create, manipulate, query and back 
up the databases with features of SQL. 
R Programming 
CO1: To use R Studio and explore the features for R programming. 
CO2: To use R functions and graphics within R programming for 
solving problems. 
CO3: To work with advanced graphics of R, import and use the 
data and represent the data into tables. 
CO4: To apply formatting on table, use Pipelines in application and 
use strings, factors in R programmer. 
CO5: To manipulate Data Frames and make use of Dates in R 
application. 
 
Environmental 
Science 
CO1: Ability to recognize and explain the importance of the 
environment and its resources. 
CO2: Knowledge about insights into ecology and biodiversity. 
CO3: Recognize the cause and effects of environmental pollution 
and other social issues. 
CO4: Knowledge about population and its impact on the 
environment. 
CO5: Insight into environment management and sustainable 
development. 
 
  
Course Outcomes  
s 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcomes 
Calculus 
CO1: Quickly and easily find the derivative of a function. 
CO2: Perform integration of functions with ease. 
CO3: Apply the knowledge of derivatives and integration to 
different domains and obtain the results. 
CO4: Apply the knowledge of multiple integrals and polar 
coordinates to solve real life problems with ease. 
CO5: Use partial derivatives and differential equations to solve 
variety of problems. 
 
  
Course Outcomes  
 
 
Program Name and 
Semester 
 
Bachelor of Science in Data Science (B.Sc.DS) 
Semester -III 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcomes 
Research Methods and 
Ethics 
CO1: Learner understands the reasons for doing research, the 
applications of research, characteristics and requirements of the 
research process, types of research and Research paradigms. 
CO2: Learner is applying major approaches to information gathering, 
the relationship between attitudinal and measurement scales Methods 
for exploring attitudes in research. 
CO3: Learner is able to analyze data in qualitative and quantitative 
studies, application of IT in data analysis. 
CO4: Learner is able to write a research report and use Information 
Technology in Research 
CO5:Learneris practicing ethical codes and practices of conduct 
research. 
Data Structures and 
Algorithms Using 
Python 
CO1: Learner is capable of choosing appropriate data structure in 
Python for specified problems and algorithms. 
CO2: Learner is able to implement Linked list and Stack data structure 
in various domains. 
CO3: Learner is able to implement Tree and Queue data structures and 
use their operation. 
CO4: Learner has ability to apply of Hashing techniques, Symbol Table 
and Graph Algorithms appropriately. 
CO5: Learner has skills to handle sorting, searching and pattern 
matching on various data structures 
Economics 
CO1: Learner understands the basic economic decisions that underline 
the economic process: What and how to produce goods and services 
and how they are distributed. 
CO2: Learner is able to apply of the concepts of scarcity, choice and 
opportunity cost to analyze the workings of a market economy. 
CO3: Learner is able to demonstrate a firm knowledge of the 
interrelationships among consumers, government, business and the rest 
of the world in the U.S. macro economy. 
CO4: Learner is able to identify the process of how the nation‘s output 
of goods and services is measured through the national income and 
product accounts; clearly comprehend the income and expenditure 
approaches to measuring national output and national income. 
CO5: Learner is capable to clearly illustrate the specific roles and 
functions of monetary and fiscal policy in the economy and explain 
how these are applied to the process of shaping economic policy and 
stabilizing the economy, specifically regarding controlling inflation, 
promoting full employment and facilitating economic growth 
Data Warehouse and 
Mining 
CO1: Learner is able to demonstrate knowledge of business 
intelligence, data warehouse with clear understanding of architectural 
types and will be able to establish the relationship between architectural 
 
  
Course Outcomes  
 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcomes 
building blocks. 
CO2: Learner is able to elaborate changing dimensions with respect to 
current trends & using aggregate tables. 
CO3: Learner is able to handle the processes of data preprocessing, data 
transformation and data reduction. 
CO4: Learner has knowledge of using various Data Mining techniques 
for classification and clustering. 
CO5: Learner is able to align the Data Mining techniques for analyzing 
the datasets using tools like Weka, R or Python 
Linear Algebra and 
Discrete Mathematics 
CO 1: Learner is able to perform common matrix operations such as 
addition, scalar multiplication, multiplication, and transposition. 
CO 2: Learner is able to describe how the determinant of a product of 
matrices relates to the determinant of the individual matrices. 
CO3: Learner expresses clear understanding of the concept of a 
solution to a game’ and also the limitations on the applicability of the 
theory 
 
  
Course Outcomes  
 
 
Program Name and 
Semester 
 
Bachelor of Science in Data Science (B.Sc.DS) 
Semester -IV 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcomes 
Testing of 
Hypothesis 
CO1: Learner is developing null and alternative hypotheses to test for 
a given situation. 
CO2: Learner is able to differentiate one- and two-tailed hypothesis 
tests. 
CO3: Learner is able to do sampling a normal distribution and random 
sampling. 
CO4: Learner is using statistical models and their associations in 
performing hypothesis testing. 
CO 5: Learner is writing the reports and interpreting the data using the 
various programming languages and packages 
Big Data 
CO1: Learner understands the key issues in big data management and 
its associated applications in intelligent business and scientific 
computing.  
CO2: Lerner is acquiring fundamental techniques and algorithms like 
Hadoop, Map Reduce and NO SQL in big data analytics.  
CO3: Learner is able to interpret business models and scientific 
computing paradigms, and apply software tools for big data analytics. 
CO 4: Learner understands adequate perspectives of big data analytics 
in various applications like recommender systems, social media 
applications etc 
Fundamentals of 
Accounting 
CO1: Lerner understands the laws governing the business, typical 
business administration schemes, and the ethics of accountancy, 
statistics, and accounting theory.  
CO2: Learner implements the record keeping of financial transactions 
and further implementations in relevant areas. 
 
Artificial Intelligence 
CO 1: Leaner understands building blocks of AI.  
CO2: Learner is analyzing problem and solving it by implementing 
suitable techniques.  
CO3: Learner is applying logic-based techniques to solve examples.  
CO4: Learner can implement Bayesian approaches.  
CO5: Learner is using machine learning concepts for solving problems. 
 
Numerical Methods 
CO1: Learner implementing Numerical Methods to solve the problems.  
CO2: Learner is computing the numerical results using raw data.  
CO3: Learner will interpret different numerical and integration.  
CO4: Learner will evaluate Numerical Solution of Initial-Value. 
CO5: Learner will learn Matrix Eigenvalue. 
 
 
 
 
  
Course Outcomes  
 
 
Program Name and 
Semester 
  
Bachelor of Science in Data Science (B.Sc.DS) 
Semester -V 
  
Course Name 
Course Outcomes 
Computer Vision 
CO1: Understand the fundamentals of image formation.  
CO2: Use and Demonstrate operations of Image Processing.  
CO3: Relate and Explain various features of Image.  
CO4: Understand, Identify and Examine various image patterns.  
CO5: Design and develop practical and innovative image 
processing and computer vision applications or systems. 
  
Data Engineering 
CO1: To remember and explain the Data Engineering basics and 
Lifecycle.  
CO2: To apply the Data Architecture Design with various options 
available.  
CO3: To create the Data from source and make use of Storage.  
CO4: To understand Ingestion process and know about Queries, 
Modeling, and Transformation.  
CO5: To Illustrate Data Analytics, Machine Learning and to 
Explain the importance of Security and Privacy. 
  
Robotic Process 
Automation   
CO1: Understand and implement the mechanism of business 
process and can provide the solution in an optimize way.   
CO2: Apply the features use for interacting with database plugins.   
CO3: Apply and Use the plug-ins and other controls used for 
process automation.   
CO4: Implement and handle the different events, debugging and 
managing the errors.   
CO5: Test and deploy the automated process. 
  
Campus to Corporate 
CO1: Apply active listening techniques and overcome barriers to 
become a better listener.  
CO2: Demonstrate improved speaking skills with clarity, 
confidence, and fluency.  
CO3: Utilize interview techniques to enhance job interview 
performance and create impactful résumés.  
CO4: Apply interpersonal communication skills to build effective 
relationships and manage conflicts in professional settings.  
CO5: Effectively deliver negative news messages, develop crisis 
communication plans, and handle press conferences in challenging 
situations. 
  
Social Media 
Analytics 
CO1: Demonstrate a comprehensive understanding of social 
media analytics concepts, theories, and tools.  
CO2: Apply various social media analytics techniques to extract 
insights and make informed decisions.  
 
  
Course Outcomes  
 
 
CO3: Perform social network analysis to uncover patterns, 
relationships, and influential nodes within social networks.  
CO4: Utilize text analytics methods to extract meaningful 
information from social media text data.  
CO5: Design and implement recommender systems for social 
media platforms, considering user preferences and item 
similarities to enhance user experiences. 
  
  
  
Program Name and 
Semester 
  
Bachelor of Science in Data Science (B.Sc.DS) 
Semester -VI 
  
Course Name 
Course Outcomes 
Machine Learning 
CO1: Understand the foundational concepts and principles of 
Machine Learning  
CO2: Apply supervised and unsupervised learning techniques, 
including classification algorithms and clustering algorithms   
CO3: Evaluate the performance of Machine Learning models 
using classification metrics, ROC/AUC curve analysis, and cross-
validation techniques.  
CO4: Implement regression models (such as linear regression and 
logistic regression) and understand their applications in predictive 
analysis.  
CO5: Utilize dimensionality reduction techniques (Like PCA) for 
feature reduction and selection, and apply association rule mining 
algorithms (such as the Apriori algorithm) for discovering 
meaningful patterns in datasets. 
  
Exploratory Data 
Analysis 
CO1: Understand importance of data and its types in Exploratory 
Data Analysis.   
CO2: Classify EDA and summary statistics in context of 
interpretation.   
CO3: Understand the significance of missing value imputations in 
better EDA interpretations.   
CO4: Analyse the measure of central tendency in describing the 
quick view of data set.   
CO5: Categorize measure of dispersion and its interpretation in 
spread ness of data.   
  
Internet of Things 
CO1: Describe what IoT is and how it works today and Recognise 
the factors that contributed to the emergence of IoT  
CO2: Design and program IoT devices and Use real IoT protocols 
for communication  
 
  
Course Outcomes  
 
 
CO3: Secure the elements of an IoT device  
CO4: Design an IoT device to work with a Cloud Computing 
infrastructure.  
CO5: Transfer IoT data to the cloud and in between cloud 
providers and Define the infrastructure for supporting IoT 
deployments 
  
Applied Business 
Analytics 
CO1: Understand basics of statistical concepts like probability 
distribution, hypothesis testing etc.  
CO2: Experiment with Business Intelligence Tools for Data 
Analysis.  
CO3: Make use of the business analytics methods for discovering 
the knowledge  
CO4: Apply Regression Analysis with Time Series Analysis and 
forecasting  
CO5: Apply and Construct various modelling techniques for 
Optimization and simulation. 
  
Healthcare Analytics 
CO1: Remember and relate Healthcare Analytic basics.  
CO2: Understand and Experiment with the attributes of Electronic 
Medical Record to learn about Computing Foundation.  
CO3: Apply and Evaluate Measuring Techniques of Healthcare 
Quality.  
CO4: Design and Build Predictive Models in Healthcare.  
CO5: Discuss and Modify Various Healthcare Predictive Models 
and learn about Healthcare and Emerging Technologies. 
  
 
 
