 
  
Programme Outcome  
 
 
Program Name  :
Master of 
Science In 
Information 
Technology 
(M.Sc.IT) 

Program Outcome 

PO1: To equip students with an integrated set of skills that will allow them to 
develop their professional careers in Information Technology. 
PO2: To equip students with theoretical and practical knowledge which 
enables them to understand the design of complex computer applications. 
PO3: The programme also prepares students to embrace future developments 
in the field and has a demonstrated professional relevance. 
PO4: The programme helps students to acquire skills and build their future 
capabilities using world-class technology. A student will possess a strong 
foundation of computer systems and information technology. 
PO5: To build sophisticated software for a wide area of applications. To work 
with higher end applications in internet technologies; also, managerial ability 
to analyze, design, develop and to maintain software development 
 
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Program Name and 
Semester 
 
Master of Science in Information Technology (M.Sc.IT) 
Semester -I 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
Soft Computing 
Techniques 
CO1: To understand Soft Computing. 
CO2: To understand Artificial Neural Network, Supervised Learning 
Network and Associative Memory Networks. 
CO3: To define Unsupervised Learning Networks, Special Networks 
and Third Generation Neural Networks.  
CO4: To summarize Fuzzy Logic, Classical Relations and Fuzzy 
Relations, Membership Function, Defuzzification, Lambda-cuts for 
fuzzy sets and Fuzzy Arithmetic and Fuzzy measures. 
CO5: To relate the concept of Virtual Machine and Cloud Computing, 
Designing Secure Web Applications. 
 
Research in 
Computing 
CO1: To develop understanding on various kinds of research, 
objectives of doing research, research process, research designs and 
sampling. 
CO2: To select and define appropriate research problem and 
parameters  
CO3: To gain the basic knowledge on qualitative research techniques. 
CO4: To define the meaning of a variable, and to be able to identify 
independent, dependent, and mediating variables. 
CO5: To create awareness of data analysis-and hypothesis testing 
procedures. 
 
Data Science 
CO1: To apply quantitative modeling and data analysis techniques to 
the solution of real world business problems, communicate findings, 
and effectively present results using data visualization techniques.  
CO2: To recognize and analyse ethical issues in business related to 
intellectual property, data security, integrity, and privacy. 
CO3: To apply ethical practices in everyday business activities and 
make well-reasoned ethical business and data management decisions. 
CO4: To demonstrate knowledge of statistical data analysis techniques 
utilized in business decision making. 
CO5: To apply principles of Data Science to the analysis of business 
problems. Use data mining software to solve real-world problems. 
Employ cutting edge tools and technologies to analyze Big Data. Apply 
algorithms to build machine intelligence. Demonstrate use of team 
work, leadership skills, decision making and organization theory. 
 
Cloud Computing 
CO1: To understand what is cloud the history behind cloud computing, 
technologies used before it, the different ways in which cloud 
environment can be built and its deployment models, using 
virtualization technology behind cloud computing. 
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
CO2: To gain a thorough knowledge on how various types of 
infrastructure can be built for different types of deployment models, 
getting a deep insight to threat, risk and threat sources on cloud 
security, To understand the services provided by major cloud providers 
like Amazon, Google App Engine, Microsoft. 
CO3: To interpret the basic cloud mechanisms deployed in cloud 
environment, and the advanced mechanisms which can make the cloud 
environment more efficient as well as secure. 
CO4: To analyze how the mechanisms studied in above unit can help 
in building a resilient, efficient cloud architecture having both basic and 
advanced approach towards cloud architecture. 
CO5: To get an insight on which metrics are used by the cloud provider 
to build price model, characteristics of a good service level agreement, 
and understanding cloud model delivery with both providers and 
consumer’s perspective. 
 
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Program Name and 
Semester 
 
Master of Science in Information Technology (M.Sc.IT) 
Semester -II 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
Big Data Analytics 
CO1: To understand the key issues in big data management and its 
associated applications in intelligent business and scientific computing. 
CO2: To acquire fundamental enabling techniques and scalable 
algorithms like Hadoop, Map Reduce and NO SQL in big data 
analytics. 
CO3: To interpret business models and scientific computing 
paradigms.  
CO4: To apply software tools for big data analytics. 
CO5: To achieve adequate perspectives of big data analytics in various 
applications like recommender systems, social media applications etc. 
 
Modern Networking 
CO1: To demonstrate in-depth knowledge in the area of Computer 
Networking.  
CO2: To demonstrate scholarship of knowledge through performing in 
a group to identify, formulate and solve a problem related to Computer 
Networks. 
CO3: To prepare a technical document for the identified Networking 
System Conducting experiments to analyze the identified research 
work in building Computer Networks. 
CO4: To define and Support User Needs, Quality of Service, 
Background, QoS Architectural Framework. 
CO5: To learn Modern Network Architecture. 
 
Micro services 
Architecture 
CO1: To develop web applications using Model View Control, Boost 
your hire ability through innovative and independent learning. 
CO2: To create MVC Models and write code that implements business 
logic within Model methods, properties, and events. 
CO3: To create Views in an MVC application that display and edit data 
and interact with Models and Controllers. 
CO4: To gain a thorough understanding of the philosophy and 
architecture of .NET Core, Understanding packages, metapackages and 
frameworks 
CO5: To acquire a working knowledge of the .NET programming 
model, implementing multi- threading effectively in .NET applications. 
 
Image Processing 
CO1: To understand the relevant aspects of digital image representation 
and their practical implications, Have the ability to design pointwise 
intensity transformations to meet stated specifications. 
CO2: To understand 2-D convolution, the 2-D DFT, and have the 
ability to design systems using these concepts. 
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
CO3: To have a command of basic image restoration techniques, 
Understand the role of alternative color spaces, and the design 
requirements leading to choices of color space.  
CO4: To appreciate the utility of wavelet decompositions and their role 
in image processing systems. 
CO5: To understand of the underlying mechanisms of image 
compression, and the ability to design systems using standard 
algorithms to meet design specifications. 
 
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Program Name and 
Semester 
 
Master of Science in Information Technology (M.Sc.IT) 
Semester -III 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
Ethical Hacking 
CO1: To understand the basic concepts of ethical hacking. 
CO2: To demonstrate the concept of system hacking and differentiate 
between various malwares.  
CO3: To understand social engineering, denial of service and session 
hijacking. 
CO4: To implement hacking of webserver and web applications. 
CO5: To understand firewalls and honeypots, buffer overflows and 
cryptography. 
 
Information Security 
Management 
CO1: To understand Risk assessment and management. 
CO2: To devise Security management of IT systems. 
CO3: To use Public key infrastructures. 
CO4: To understand Auditing and business continuity. 
CO5: To inperpret Computer forensics. 
 
Virtualization 
CO1: To understand the basics of virtualization technology like what 
is virtualization its pros and cons, its types and taxonomy. 
CO2: To understand how server visualization can be implemented, 
technologies behind it and the business cases in which it has a very 
important role to play. 
CO3: To relate enterprise campus network design, WAN designs and 
implementing virtualization at device, data path and control plane level. 
CO4: To have an insight on SAN architecture, SNIA models used to 
make SAN designs more understandable and understanding the 
suitability of different RAID levels. 
CO5: To relate the history, architecture and usage of blade systems and 
their contribution in virtualization technology. 
 
Embedded Systems 
CO1: To understand the basic concepts of embedded systems. 
CO2: To understand Embedded hardware/firmware design and real 
time operating systems.  
CO3: To summarize the working of different types of memories. 
CO4: To program microcontrollers in C using IDE and debugging 
techniques. 
CO5: To design, Development and planning of embedded systems 
based projects. 
 
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Program Name and 
Semester 
 
Master of Science in Information Technology (M.Sc.IT) 
Semester -III 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
Technical Writing and 
Entrepreneurship 
Development 
CO1: To develop technical documents that meet the requirements with 
standard guidelines. Understanding the essentials and hands-on 
learning about effective Website Development.  
CO2: To write Better Quality Content Which Ranks faster at Search 
Engines. Build effective Social Media Pages.  
CO3: To evaluate the essentials parameters of effective Social Media 
Pages.  
CO4: To understand importance of innovation and entrepreneurship. 
CO5:  To analyze research and development projects. 
Applied Artificial 
Intelligence 
CO1: To understand the fundamentals concepts of expert system and 
its applications.  
CO2: To use probability and concept of fuzzy sets for solving AI based 
problems.  
CO3: To be able to understand the applications of Machine Learning. 
The learner can also apply fuzzy   system for solving problems.  
CO4: To apply to understand the applications of genetic algorithms in 
different problems related to artificial intelligence.  
CO5: To use knowledge representation techniques in natural language 
processing.  
Machine Learning 
CO1: To understand the key issues in Machine Learning and its 
associated applications in intelligent business and scientific computing.   
CO2: To acquire the knowledge about classification and regression 
techniques where a learner will be able to explore his skill to generate 
data base knowledge using the prescribed techniques.  
CO3: To understand and implement the techniques for extracting the 
knowledge using machine learning methods.   
CO4: To achieve adequate perspectives of big data analytics in various 
applications like recommender systems, social media applications etc.  
CO5: To understand the statistical approach related to machine 
learning. He will also Apply the algorithms to a real-world problem, 
optimize the models learned and report on the expected accuracy that 
can be achieved by applying the models. 
Robotic Process 
Automation 
CO1: to understand the mechanism of business process and can provide 
the solution in an optimize way.   
CO2: To learn the features use for interacting with database plugins.   
CO3: To use the plug-ins and other controls used for process 
automation.   
CO4: To handle the different events, debugging and managing the 
errors.   
CO5: to test and deploy the automated process. 
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Program Name and 
Semester 
 
Master of Science in Information Technology (M.Sc.IT) 
Semester -IV 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
IT Infrastructure 
Management 
CO1: To learn the basics of ITSM, Life Cycle of ITSM and principles 
of Service Strategy. 
CO2: To understand objectives of service design, principles, processes 
and considerations during service design. 
CO3: To identify objectives of service transition, principles, processes 
and considerations during service transition. 
CO4: To analyze objectives of service operations, principles, functions 
and processes of service operation. 
CO5: To evaluate objectives, major concepts and processes of 
Continual Service Improvement. 
 
Artificial Intelligence 
CO1: To understand AI and its foundations. 
CO2: To learn AI algorithms and concepts which can assist in real-time 
implementations. 
CO3: To relate various search methodologies and their practical 
implementations with examples. 
CO4: To learn the Structure of Intelligent systems so that AI Based 
applications can be built over it. 
CO5: To implement the project of AI with proper planning. 
 
Computer Forensic 
CO1: To understand Investigation Process, Data Acquisitions. 
CO2: To work with Windows, DOS systems and current forensics 
tools. 
CO3: To understand Macintosh and Linux boot processes, Recovering 
graphic files.  
CO4: To relate Network Forensics and E-mail Investigations. 
CO5: To learn and apply Report Writing, Testimony and Ethics in 
Investigations. 
 
Design of Embedded 
Control Systems 
CO1: To understand the working of microcontrollers.  
CO2: To describe the working of PIC microcontrollers. 
CO3: To interpret fundamentals of ARM Processor.  
CO4: To devise the different instruction sets in ARM. 
CO5: To write an ARM assembly code. 
 
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Program Name and 
Semester 
 
Master of Science in Information Technology (M.Sc.IT) 
Semester -IV 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
Blockchain 
CO1: The students would understand the structure of a blockchain and 
why/when it is better than a simple distributed database.   
CO2: Analyze the incentive structure in a blockchain based system and 
critically assess its functions, benefits and vulnerabilities   
CO3: Evaluate the setting where a blockchain based structure may be 
applied, its potential and its limitations   
CO4: Understand what constitutes a “smart” contract, what are its legal 
implications and what it can and cannot do, now and in the near future   
CO5: Develop blockchain DApps.  
Natural Language 
Processing 
CO1: To introduce the students to the field of Language Computing 
and its applications ranging from classical era to modern context.   
CO2: To provide understanding of various NLP tasks and NLP 
abstractions such as Morphological analysis, POS tagging, concept of 
syntactic parsing, semantic analysis etc.   
CO3: To enhance knowledge of different approaches/algorithms for 
carrying out NLP tasks.   
CO4: To highlight the concepts of Language grammar and grammar 
representation in Computational Linguistics. 
CO5: To understand applications in different sectors 
 
Deep Learning 
CO1: To present the mathematical, statistical and computational 
challenges of building neural networks   
CO2: To study the concepts of deep learning   
CO3: To enable the students to know deep learning techniques to 
support real-time applications 
CO4: To design and implement various deep learning models and 
architectures 
CO5: To apply various deep learning techniques to design efficient 
algorithms for real-world applications.   
Human Computer 
Interaction 
CO1: To understand the important aspects of implementation of 
human-computer interfaces.  
CO2: To identify the various tools and techniques for interface 
analysis, design, and evaluation.  
CO3: To highlight the impact of usable interfaces in the acceptance and 
performance utilization of information systems 
 CO4: To understand how to manage the system resources and do the 
task analysis.  
CO5: To design and implement a complete system.    
 
