 
  
Programme Outcome  
 
 
Program Name 
Program Outcome 
 
Master of 
Commerce in  
Advance 
Accountancy 
(M.COM.-AA) 
PO1: To impart the knowledge basic accounting principles and the latest 
application oriented corporate accounting methods. 
PO2: To develop the decision making skills through costing methods and 
practical application of management accounting principles. 
PO3: To enhance the computer literacy and its applicability in business 
through latest version on tally and e-commerce principles. 
PO4: To create awareness in application oriented research through research 
for business decisions. 
PO5: To enable the students for conducting business, accounting and auditing 
practices, role of regulatory bodies in corporate and financial sectors nature 
of various financial instruments. 
 
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Program Name and 
Semester 
 
Master of Commerce in Advance Accountancy (M.COM. -AA) 
Semester -I 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
Strategic Management 
CO1: Familiarization with the strategic management process. 
CO2: Understanding about the techniques to scan an environment and 
the role of environment scanning in hurdle less strategic management 
of an organization. 
CO3: Understanding about the importance of strategy formulation and 
strategy implementation. 
CO4: Clarity about the strategies followed by different companies in 
the corporate world. 
 
Economics for 
Business 
Decisions 
CO1: Equip the students with basic tools of economic theory and its 
practical applications. 
CO2: To familiarize the students with the understanding of the 
economic aspects of current affairs and to analyse the market 
behaviour. 
CO3: Providing an insight into application of economic principles in 
business decisions. 
CO4: Discussion of some cases involving the use of concepts of 
business economics. 
 
Cost & Management 
Accounting 
CO1: To enhance the abilities of learners to develop the concept of Cost 
and management accounting and its significance in the business. 
CO2: To enable the learners to understand, develop and apply the 
techniques of costing in the decision making in the business corporates. 
CO3: To enable the learners in understanding, developing, preparing 
and presenting the financial report in the business corporates. 
 
Business Ethics & 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
CO1: To familiarize the learners with the concept and relevance of 
Business Ethics in the modern era. 
CO2: To enable learners to understand the scope and complexity of 
Corporate Social responsibility in the global and Indian context. 
 
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Program Name and 
Semester 
 
Master of Commerce in Advance Accountancy (M.COM. -AA) 
Semester -II 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
Research 
Methodology for 
Business 
CO1: To enhance the abilities of learners to undertake research in 
business & social sciences. 
CO2: To enable the learners to understand, develop and apply the 
fundamental skills in formulating research problems. 
CO3: To enable the learners in understanding and developing the most 
appropriate methodology for their research. 
CO4: To make the learners familiar with the basic statistical tools and 
techniques applicable for research. 
 
Macro Economics 
concepts and 
Applications 
CO1: To enable the learners to grasp fully the theoretical rationale 
behind policies at the country as well as corporate level. 
CO2: To receive a firm grounding on the basic macroeconomic 
concepts that strengthen analysis of crucial economic policies. 
CO3: To regularly read suggested current readings and related articles 
in the dailies and journals are analysed in class rooms. 
 
Corporate Finance 
CO1: To enhance the abilities of learners to develop the objectives of 
Financial Management. 
CO2: To enable the learners to understand, develop and apply the 
techniques of investment in the financial decision making in the 
business corporates.  
CO3: To enhance the abilities of learners to analyse the financial 
statements. 
 
E-Commerce 
CO1: To provide an analytical framework to understand the emerging 
world of e- commerce. 
CO2: To make the learners familiar with current challenges and issues 
in e- commerce. 
CO3: To develop the understanding of the learners towards various 
business models. 
CO4: To enable to understand the Web- based Commerce and equip 
the learners to assess e-commerce requirements of a business. 
CO5: To develop understanding of learners relating to Legal and 
Regulatory Environment and Security issues of E-commerce. 
 
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Program Name and 
Semester 
 
Master of Commerce in Advance Accountancy (M.COM. -AA) 
Semester -III 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
Advance Financial 
Accounting 
CO1: Understanding of Foreign Currency conversion as per 
Accounting Standards.  
CO2: Able to analyse the final accounts of Banking Companies. 
CO3: Know the Provisions of Insurance Company Accounts. 
 
Advance Cost 
Accounting 
CO1: To study the costing concept and methods. 
CO2: To know the process costing with normal and abnormal loss and 
Equivalent units. 
CO3: To update the statements as per Responsibility accounting and 
inflation accounting. 
CO4: To prepare the statements as per conventional and modern 
methods (ABC). 
 
Direct taxes 
CO1: Updated with the current finance tax planning. 
CO2: Provisions of Income tax act. 
CO3: Knowledge of various heads of incomes. 
CO4: Computation of Total Income. 
 
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Program Name and 
Semester 
 
Master of Commerce in Advance Accountancy (M.COM. -AA) 
Semester -IV 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
Corporate Financial 
Accounting 
CO1: Familiarize with basic concepts of corporate accounting. 
CO2: Preparation of the final accounts of companies after merger and 
amalgamation. 
CO3: Ability to prepare the consolidated financial statement and 
balance sheet. 
CO4: Awareness of IFRS. 
 
Financial Management CO1: Skill to manage financial resources of a company. 
CO2: Knowledge about the various sources of finance available to 
businessmen in current scenario. 
CO3: Ability to select an investment proposal by analysing the 
compounded and discounted value of money invested. 
 
Indirect taxes 
CO1: Concepts indirect tax and GST from the pre-GST period to post- 
GST period.  
CO2: GST in the Indian and global economy and its contribution to the 
economic development. 
CO3: Comprehend the principles of taxations, objectives of taxes and 
its impact, shifting and incidence process of indirect taxes in the market 
orientated economy. 
CO4: Implications of GST on the taxable capacity consumers, dealers 
and of the society at large and its changes. 
CO5: Encourage students to become tax consultant in preparing the tax 
planning, tax management. Payment of tax and filing of tax returns. 
 
 
