 
  
Programme Outcome  
 
 
Program Name 
Program Outcome 
 
Master of 
Commerce in  
Banking & 
Finance 
(M.COM.-B&F) 
PO1: To inculcate the knowledge of business and the techniques of managing 
the business with special focus on Insurance and Banking theory law and 
practices. 
PO2: To have knowledge of capital market law besides fundamental legal 
knowledge. 
PO3: To have the ability to use basic theoretical and practical knowledge 
gained in the field in an advanced education level of the same field or at the 
same level of another field. 
PO4: To express their opinions about banking and insurance in written and 
oral form, based on the basic knowledge and skills they acquire. 
PO5: To enhance the computer literacy and its applicability in business 
through latest version on tally and e-commerce principles. 
 
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Program Name and 
Semester 
 
Master of Commerce in Banking & Finance (M.COM. -B&F)) 
Semester -I 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
Strategic Management 
CO1: Familiarization with the strategic management process. 
CO2: Understanding about the techniques to scan an environment and 
the role of environment scanning in hurdle less strategic management 
of an organization. 
CO3: Understanding about the importance of strategy formulation and 
strategy implementation. 
CO4: Clarity about the strategies followed by different companies in 
the corporate world. 
 
Economics for 
Business 
Decisions 
CO1: Equip the students with basic tools of economic theory and its 
practical applications. 
CO2: To familiarize the students with the understanding of the 
economic aspects of current affairs and to analyse the market 
behaviour. 
CO3: Providing an insight into application of economic principles in 
business decisions. 
CO4: Discussion of some cases involving the use of concepts of 
business economics. 
 
Cost & Management 
Accounting 
CO1: To enhance the abilities of learners to develop the concept of Cost 
and management accounting and its significance in the business. 
CO2: To enable the learners to understand, develop and apply the 
techniques of costing in the decision making in the business corporates. 
CO3: To enable the learners in understanding, developing, preparing 
and presenting the financial report in the business corporates. 
 
Business Ethics & 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
CO1: To familiarize the learners with the concept and relevance of 
Business Ethics in the modern era. 
CO2: To enable learners to understand the scope and complexity of 
Corporate Social responsibility in the global and Indian context. 
 
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Program Name and 
Semester 
 
Master of Commerce in  Banking & Finance (M.COM.-B&F) 
Semester -II 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
Research 
Methodology for 
Business 
CO1: To enhance the abilities of learners to undertake research in 
business & social sciences. 
CO2: To enable the learners to understand, develop and apply the 
fundamental skills in formulating research problems. 
CO3: To enable the learners in understanding and developing the most 
appropriate methodology for their research. 
CO4: To make the learners familiar with the basic statistical tools and 
techniques applicable for research. 
 
Macro Economics 
concepts and 
Applications 
CO1: To enable the learners to grasp fully the theoretical rationale 
behind policies at the country as well as corporate level. 
CO2: To receive a firm grounding on the basic macroeconomic 
concepts that strengthen analysis of crucial economic policies. 
CO3: To regularly read suggested current readings and related articles 
in the dailies and journals are analysed in class rooms. 
 
Corporate Finance 
CO1: To enhance the abilities of learners to develop the objectives of 
Financial Management. 
CO2: To enable the learners to understand, develop and apply the 
techniques of investment in the financial decision making in the 
business corporates.  
CO3: To enhance the abilities of learners to analyse the financial 
statements. 
 
E-Commerce 
CO1: To provide an analytical framework to understand the emerging 
world of e- commerce. 
CO2: To make the learners familiar with current challenges and issues 
in e- commerce. 
CO3: To develop the understanding of the learners towards various 
business models. 
CO4: To enable to understand the Web- based Commerce and equip 
the learners to assess e-commerce requirements of a business. 
CO5: To develop understanding of learners relating to Legal and 
Regulatory Environment and Security issues of E-commerce. 
 
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Program Name and 
Semester 
 
Master of Commerce in  Banking & Finance (M.COM.-B&F) 
Semester -III 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
Commercial bank 
Management 
CO1: To familiarize the banking sector reforms. 
CO2: To know the control banking systems operating index.  
CO3: To study the different types of deposits. 
CO4: To analyse the differently types of customers and the services 
offered by bank. 
CO5: To know the various document related with banks. 
 
Debt market 
CO1: Understand the basic features of a debt security Debt securities 
include securities offered by corporates or governments. 
CO2: Understand how different types of bonds can be created through 
variations in bond structures. 
CO3: Relate the bond market, the pricing rates and interest structure of 
various bonds along with their varying risk factors 
CO4: Describe the characteristics, participants and instruments in the 
money market. 
CO5: To be familiar with the primary and secondary markets for 
government securities and corporate debt. 
 
Financial markets 
CO1: Identify the functions of financial markets and Understanding 
Indian financial system and its components including regulations. 
CO2: Comprehension of SE functioning and various products issued 
by different financial institutions in primary market of India. 
CO3: Ability to outline the basics of derivative, fixed securities & 
Money market products available in financial markets. 
 
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Program Name and 
Semester 
 
Master of Commerce in  Banking & Finance (M.COM.-B&F) 
Semester -IV 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
Investment 
Management 
C01: Understanding the principles of portfolio modelling and its 
practical use. 
C02: Understanding risk and return trade off. 
C03: Develop the analytical ability of the student to become an 
investment advisor. 
 
Financial Services 
CO1: Knowledge of the financial system and economic development. 
CO2: Familiarize with stock exchange functions. 
CO3: Knowledge of the merchant banking functions and services. 
CO4: Concept and analysis of the factoring services and depository 
system in India. 
 
Auditing in Banking 
Sector 
CO1: Understanding of Auditing Concepts like working papers, note 
book. 
CO2: Guidelines for Auditing of Banking Companies. 
CO3: Aware of concurrent audit, internal audit. 
 
 
