 
  
Programme Outcome  
 
 
Program Name 
Program Outcome 
 
Master of 
Commerce in  
Business 
Management 
(M.COM.-BM) 
PO1: To give in-depth insight into subjects’ likes Marketing, Supply Chain 
management, Entrepreneurial management Retail management etc.  
PO2: Develop overall team building and leadership qualities to achieve 
desired organisation objectives. 
PO3: Holistic development to create responsible citizenry leading to social 
and economic value for the nation. 
PO4: Managerial skill of the students are developed by adopting practical 
approaches such as case study, business games, assignment writing and 
application of digital technology. 
 
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Program Name and 
Semester 
 
Master of Commerce in Business Management (M.COM. -BM) 
Semester -I 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
Strategic Management 
CO1: Familiarization with the strategic management process. 
CO2: Understanding about the techniques to scan an environment and 
the role of environment scanning in hurdle less strategic management 
of an organization. 
CO3: Understanding about the importance of strategy formulation and 
strategy implementation. 
CO4: Clarity about the strategies followed by different companies in 
the corporate world. 
 
Economics for 
Business 
Decisions 
CO1: Equip the students with basic tools of economic theory and its 
practical applications. 
CO2: To familiarize the students with the understanding of the 
economic aspects of current affairs and to analyse the market 
behaviour. 
CO3: Providing an insight into application of economic principles in 
business decisions. 
CO4: Discussion of some cases involving the use of concepts of 
business economics. 
 
Cost & Management 
Accounting 
CO1: To enhance the abilities of learners to develop the concept of Cost 
and management accounting and its significance in the business. 
CO2: To enable the learners to understand, develop and apply the 
techniques of costing in the decision making in the business corporates. 
CO3: To enable the learners in understanding, developing, preparing 
and presenting the financial report in the business corporates. 
 
Business Ethics & 
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
CO1: To familiarize the learners with the concept and relevance of 
Business Ethics in the modern era. 
CO2: To enable learners to understand the scope and complexity of 
Corporate Social responsibility in the global and Indian context. 
 
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Program Name and 
Semester 
 
Master of Commerce in Business Management (M.COM. -BM) 
Semester -II 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
Research 
Methodology for 
Business 
CO1: To enhance the abilities of learners to undertake research in 
business & social sciences. 
CO2: To enable the learners to understand, develop and apply the 
fundamental skills in formulating research problems. 
CO3: To enable the learners in understanding and developing the most 
appropriate methodology for their research. 
CO4: To make the learners familiar with the basic statistical tools and 
techniques applicable for research. 
 
Macro Economics 
concepts and 
Applications 
CO1: To enable the learners to grasp fully the theoretical rationale 
behind policies at the country as well as corporate level. 
CO2: The learners to receive a firm grounding on the basic 
macroeconomic concepts that strengthen analysis of crucial economic 
policies. 
CO3: To regularly read suggested current readings and related articles 
in the dailies and journals are analysed in class rooms. 
 
Corporate Finance 
CO1: To enhance the abilities of learners to develop the objectives of 
Financial Management. 
CO2: To enable the learners to understand, develop and apply the 
techniques of investment in the financial decision making in the 
business corporates.  
CO3: To enhance the abilities of learners to analyse the financial 
statements. 
 
E-Commerce 
CO1: To provide an analytical framework to understand the emerging 
world of e- commerce. 
CO2: To make the learners familiar with current challenges and issues 
in e- commerce. 
CO3: To develop the understanding of the learners towards various 
business models. 
CO4: To enable to understand the Web- based Commerce and equip 
the learners to assess e-commerce requirements of a business. 
CO5: To develop understanding of learners relating to Legal and 
Regulatory Environment and Security issues of E-commerce. 
 
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Program Name and 
Semester 
 
Master of Commerce in Business Management (M.COM. -BM) 
Semester -III 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
Marketing Strategies 
and Practices 
CO1: Students acquire the knowledge of Marketing Strategies, 
Designing Marketing Plans and types.  
CO2: Students understand concepts like Marketing Mix, SBU, SWOT 
and defensive Marketing strategies.  
CO3: Students learn about environmental analysis and customer value.  
CO4: Students become aware about recent trends in marketing 
strategies. 
 
Human Resource 
Management 
CO1: Students get the knowledge about the basics of Human resource 
management, HRP and Recruitment and selection procedure.  
CO2: Students relate information about Human Resource Development 
through the knowledge of the training techniques and performance 
appraisal of the organizations.  
CO3: Students get to know the laws related to human resources through 
the information about the various acts and labour legislation.  
CO4: Students classify the knowledge about the emerging trends like 
welfare of the employees in various areas. Students get understanding 
of the facilities given to the employees and their welfare. 
 
Entrepreneurship 
Management 
CO1: Students understand entrepreneurial culture and various theories 
of entrepreneurship.  
CO2: Students relate SWOC analysis and importance of social 
entrepreneurship.  
CO3: 
Students 
extract 
government 
schemes 
for 
women 
entrepreneurship in India.  
CO4: Students analyze business idea, formulation of project and 
feasibility analysis. 
 
Project Report and 
Viva Voce 
CO1: To widened theoretical knowledge with the help of practical 
knowledge.  
CO2: To develop practical and analytical thinking skill.  
CO3: To develop problem solving skill. 
CO4: To identify the gap analysis between theory and practical aspects. 
 
 
  
Course Outcome  
 
 
Program Name and 
Semester 
 
Master of Commerce in Business Management (M.COM. -BM) 
Semester -IV 
 
Course Name 
Course Outcome 
Advertising and Sales 
Management 
CO1: Students understand the basics of the advertising with the help of 
behavioural models, advertising agencies and media.  
CO2: Students access the information about Creativity, Social and 
Regulatory Framework of Advertising.  
CO3: Students relate the knowledge of the basics of the sales 
management sales force management and sales organizations.  
CO4: Students learn about the Sales Planning, Controlling and recent 
trends which are available in the sales management. 
 
Retail Management 
CO1: Acquaintance with the Introduction to Retailing Strategies. 
CO2: Familiarity with Retailing Strategies & Plans. 
CO3: Knowledge of Retail Market Environmental Trends & Building 
Customer Value. 
CO4: Describe the Recent Trends in Retail Marketing Strategies. 
 
Supply Chain 
Management 
CO1: Students can apply knowledge to assess and manage an effective 
supply chain operation. 
CO2: Become familiar with current supply chain theories, practices and 
concepts to solve the real life problems and provide solution to it. 
CO3: Students to enable to measure and analyse the value and 
efficiency of Global Supply Chain Networks. 
CO4: Strengthen integrative management analytical and problem-
solving skills. 
Project Report and 
Viva Voce 
CO1: To widened theoretical knowledge with the help of practical 
knowledge.  
CO2: To develop practical and analytical thinking skill.  
CO3: To develop problem solving skill. 
CO4: To identify the gap analysis between theory and practical aspects. 
 
 
