University Grants Commission
Bahadurshah Zafar Marg
New Delhi
Saksham
Measures for Ensuring
the
Safety of Women
and
Programmes for Gender Sensitization 
on 
Campuses
Saksham
Saksham
Measures for Ensuring
the
Safety of Women
and
Programmes for Gender Sensitization 
on 
Campuses
University Grants Commission
Bahadurshah Zafar Marg
New Delhi
Saksham
Measures for 
Ensuring
the
Safety of Women
and
Programmes for 
Gender Sensitization 
on 
Campuses
iv
© University Grants Commission
December 2013
All Rights Reserved
Published by Secretary
University Grants Commission,
Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg, New Delhi-110002
Designed and Printed by :
Deeya Media Art, D-41/A, Laxmi Nagar, Delhi-110092 Ph. : 9312550335, 9211656230
v
Table of Contents
Preface	....................................................................................................................................vii
Letter of Submission...............................................................................................................ix
Acknowledgements................................................................................................................xi
List of Members of the Task Force..................................................................................... xiii
Executive Summary..............................................................................................................01
I.	
INTRODUCTION	
 09
	
1.1	
Higher Education and Gender in Contemporary India.............................................09
	
1.2	
Sexual Violence and Harassment in the Contemporary Context.............................13
	
1.3	
Vishaka Guidelines, Justice Verma Committee...........................................................14
	
1.4	
Sexual Harassment at the Workplace Act, 2013..........................................................16
	
1.5	
Establishment of the UGC Task Force and its TOR....................................................20
II.	
QUESTIONNAIRE BASED SURVEY AMONG UNIVERSITIES 
AND COLLEGES	
23
	
2.1	
Method of eliciting information.....................................................................................23
	
2.2	
Background Information and Rationale.......................................................................24
III.	 OPEN FORUMS	
33
	
3.1	
Context and Background................................................................................................33
	
3.2	
Observations and Feedback from Open Forums.........................................................35
	
3.3	
The Main Issues that Emerged.......................................................................................35
IV.	 GENDER SENSITISATION	
47
	
4.1	
Rationale and Scope.........................................................................................................47
	
4.2	
Suggested Course Module..............................................................................................48
	
4.3	
Workshop Series on Gender, Masculinities, Sexual Harassment,  
Laws and Rights...............................................................................................................57
V.	
SEXUAL HARASSMENT IN UNIVERSITIES AND COLLEGES	
66
	
5.1	
Understanding the role of ICCs in University.............................................................67
	
5.2	
Guiding Principles...........................................................................................................70
vi
	
5.3	
Specially Vulnerable Groups..........................................................................................77
	
5.4	
Intimate Partner Violence...............................................................................................79
	
5.5	
Ethics for Research Supervision.....................................................................................80
VI.     INTRODUCTION RECOMMENDATIONS	
81
	
6.1	
Setting up a Gender Sensitization Unit.........................................................................81
	
6.2	
The Problems of Protectionism......................................................................................83
	
6.3	
Gender Sensitization........................................................................................................83
	
6.4	
Recognising and Combatting Sexual Harassment......................................................84
	
6.5	
Preparation of a UGC Handbook..................................................................................87
	
6.6	
Courses and Workshops.................................................................................................88
	
6.7	
University Services and Infrastructure.........................................................................88
	
6.8	
Women’s Studies Centres/ Women’s Development Cells........................................90
	
6.9	
Recommended Projects/ Research................................................................................91
	
6.10	 Regulatory Aspects..........................................................................................................91
VII.	 APPENDICES
	
1(a)	 Task Force to Review the Measures for Ensuring Safety of Women on 
Campuses and Programs for Gender Sensitization....................................................95
	
1(b)	 Vishaka Guidelines from the Supreme Court 1997.....................................................97
	
2.	
Flow Chart on Procedure and Inquiry in Sexual Harassment Cases.....................107
	
3.	
NCRB data on Crimes against Women.......................................................................109
	
4.	
Meetings and Consultations held by the Task Force and Members.......................112
	
5.	
Justice Verma Committee Bill of Rights......................................................................113
	
6.	
Justice Verma Committee Chapter 14 on Education and Perception Reform.......118
	
7.	
Survey Questionnaire used by Task Force.................................................................126
	
8.	
Recommendations of Kolkata Open Forum...............................................................131
	
9.	
Note on Masculinities and Organisations..................................................................139
	
10.	
JNU GSCASH Guidelines.............................................................................................147
	
11.	
Delhi University Anti-Sexual Harassment Guidelines.............................................179
	
12.	
Recommended Procedure for Cross Examination....................................................219
	
13.	
Conciliation.....................................................................................................................222
	
14.	
Workshops on Legal Literacy.......................................................................................226
	
15.	
Bibliography....................................................................................................................230
vii
Preface
Education plays a crucial role in promoting the egalitarian commitments of Equality 
and Justice enshrined in the Constitution of India. The University Grants Commission 
(UGC) fully recognizes how integral such education, and especially access to 
higher learning, is for all to reach their fullest potential, and more especially for the 
disadvantaged and the marginalized groups, including women. Promoting equity 
through higher education has always been at the very heart of the agenda of the 
UGC and reflects its commitment to nurture and preserve democracy within spaces 
of learning. It promoted this commitment through introduction of schemes for the 
marginalized sections of the society, particularly the Scheduled Castes (SCs), Scheduled 
Tribes (STs), Minorities, Differently-abled Persons, and especially, participation of 
women, cutting across regional and afore-mentioned social groups, to increase their 
access to, and retention and success in higher education. The outcome of these efforts 
touched different levels of satisfaction. But some special efforts were still needed to 
create a more conducive environment for girls and women for their participation and 
success in higher education.
Unfortunately, the spate of recent disturbing events in the national capital and 
in other parts of the country have spurred the UGC to review existing arrangements 
that are currently in place on the campuses of all institutions of higher learning to 
ensure the freedom, safety and security of girls, and women in particular, and of the 
entire youth in general. The UGC is committed to a policy of zero tolerance regarding 
harassment of any kind. Accordingly, a Task Force was constituted to review the 
present arrangements, identify loopholes and inadequacies and to formulate remedial 
measures to address the concerns of all girls and women, and of the youth who study 
and live in the country’s numerous and diverse university campuses.
The UGC is very happy with the work output of the Task Force, which set about its 
responsibilities with commitment and care. The UGC is also grateful to all those who 
gave of their time and effort, including members of universities across the country, 
experts, women’s organizations, and the members of the Task Force.
viii
The UGC has studied the recommendations contained in this Report. It is of 
the view that the Report has come up with several fundamental and far-reaching 
recommendations, all of which are based on the principles of Equality and Justice 
guaranteed by the Constitution of India, including Rights to Dignity, Bodily
Autonomy and Integrity enunciated in the Bill of Rights for Women in the 
Justice Verma Committee Report of January 2013, and are in consonance with the 
Vishaka Guidelines, the Sexual Harassment at Workplace Act, 2013 and the Criminal 
Amendment Bill, 2013.
The UGC is committed to sharing the concerns and recommendations in this Report 
with all sections of the university community so that all members of higher education 
institutions can live, work and study without fear of harassment and violence, in an 
atmosphere of equality and dignity. This is urgent in the current moment where the 
youth, the demographic dividend of the nation, is placing its faith in higher education 
more than ever before in India’s history.
I place on record my deep appreciation of the commendable work done by Prof. 
Meenakshi Gopinath, Member, UGC and Chairperson of the Task Force, Prof. Mary 
E John (Co-Chair) and its other members for their insightful contributions. It is hoped 
that the recommendations of the Task Force will go a long way in ensuring the safety 
of women on our university campuses, thereby enhancing their participation in higher 
education to the fullest benefit of the society.
Ved Prakash
Chairman
University Grants Commission
New Delhi
November 7, 2013
ix
October 30, 2013
Prof. Ved Prakash
Chairman
University Grants Commission
Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg,
New Delhi-110002
Dear Prof. Ved Prakash,
The Task Force set up by you to Review the Measures for Ensuring the Safety of 
Women on Campuses and Programmes for Gender Sensitization has now completed its 
mandated task. It is my privilege, on behalf of my Co-Chair, Prof. Mary John and all the 
members of the Task Force to submit this Report in the faith that its recommendations 
will be adopted and mandated by the UGC for speedy implementation by all Higher 
Education Institutions.
The recommendations, if implemented in true spirit, we believe have the potential 
to realize UGC’s commitment towards Gender Justice, Equity and Access on all 
campuses. They also underscore the importance of gender sensitization initiatives for 
the full realization of rights to equal citizenship and the need to institutionalize policies 
of zero tolerance for overt and structural gender based discrimination and violence. 
The Report foregrounds the crucial role of education in combating the cultures of 
silence and impunity that sustain practices inimical to gender justice in institutions of 
learning.
The Task Force has engaged in a broad process of consultation discussion and 
dialogue with policy makers, senior education administration, faculty, staff and 
students in Open Forums. It has also drawn on feedback on questionnaires sent out 
from the UGC as a basis for its recommendation.
x
The Open Forums allowed for a range of voices to be brought on board from the 
Higher Education space that is becoming increasingly heterogeneous. The Task Force 
has been mindful of the ‘normative’ and educative role that colleges and Universities 
need to play to transform consciousness (without relying excessively or exclusively 
on ‘punitive’ processes) to combat gender based discrimination on campuses.
The recommendations reflect this imperative. The support of the UGC and your 
own encouragement and commitment to this process has enabled the Task Force to 
look beyond immediate palliatives to suggest substantive, actionable and sustainable 
initiatives that can provide the template for all expansive and progressive institutions 
of learning for the country.
We thank you for your unstinted support to this timely initiative to engender 
equality and justice on our campuses in a manner that can make despair unconvincing 
and hope practical.
This Report is an attempt to open up spaces for an engagement that must ever be 
an unfolding, reflective and empowering work-in-progress.
Thanking you,
Sincerely,
Meenakashi Gopinath
Chairperson,
The Task Force to Review the Measures for Ensuring the Safety of Women on
Campuses and Programmes for Gender Sensitization.
xi
Acknowledgements
The Task Force acknowledges, with gratitude, the contributions of members of all 
sections of the academic community - students, teachers and staff, representatives of 
women’s groups and social activists without whose valuable inputs this Report could 
not have reflected such a wide spectrum of experience and expertise. Their engagement 
has prompted us to carry the ‘voices’ that may have otherwise remained ‘inaudible’.
At the outset we record our deep appreciation for the proactive manner in which 
the Chairperson of the UGC, Prof. Ved Prakash initiated this process, and provided 
it generous support and encouragement throughout its many stages and also for the 
time afforded us for meaningful deliberations. Dr. Akhilesh Gupta, Secretary UGC, 
ensured all necessary administrative and financial support, and Dr. Archana Thakur, 
Deputy Secretary, served as the efficient and committed link that facilitated the 
interface between the Task Force and HEIs through the process as an excellent team 
member.
A special thanks to the Vice Chancellors of the Osmania University, Hyderabad 
Central University; Maulana Azad National Urdu University; English and Foreign 
Languages University; Kerala, Calicut and Kannur Universities; the Cochin University 
of Science and Technology; Mahatma Gandhi University; Sree Shankaracharya 
University of Sanskrit; Jamia Millia Islamia; and the University of Delhi for enabling the 
interface at the Open Forums that provided invaluable insights about the challenges 
and expectations ‘from the ground’ on a range of issues around gender inequality, 
gender based violence and the insecurities faced by women in particular. Thanks are 
due to the Vice Chancellor of Jawaharlal Nehru University, for permission to draw from 
their Report of the Committee set up by the Vice-Chancellor to recommend measures 
to prevent gender based violence and discrimination in JNU, in the aftermath of the 
incident of July 31st 2013 (chaired by Prof Sudha Pai). Thanks also to the organisers of 
a dialogue among women’s studies centres in West Bengal conducted by the Women’s 
Studies and Research Centre Calcutta University and Ebong Alap in response to the 
UGC questionnaire on issues of safety prepared by the Task Force and for sharing the 
Report of their workshop.
xii
Several individuals and organizations extended themselves to help organize the 
Open Forums, committing time and resources to ensure wide participation and candid 
discussion and feedback. The Task Force acknowledges here the valuable support 
provided by the following organisations and institutions - Anveshi Research Centre 
for Women’s Studies, Hyderabad; SAKHI Trivandrum; the Centre for Women’s 
Development Studies, New Delhi and Lady Shri Ram College, New Delhi. Many 
individuals also gave of their time including:
Dr. A. Suneetha, Anveshi Research Centre; Ms. Chitra L, Research Officer, 
Kerala State Higher Education Council; Dr. Arvinder Ansari, Associate Prof. and 
Provost, Jamia; Dr. Bulbul Dhar James, Director, SNCWS, Jamia; Ms. Simi Malhotra, 
Coordinator, Outreach Program, Jamia; Mr.T P Sreenivasan, Executive Vice­Chairman, 
Kerala State Higher Education Council; Dr. Sindhu Thulasidharan, University 
of Kerala; Prof. G. S. Jayasree, University of Kerala; Ms. Mini Sukumar, Calicut 
University; Ms. Liya Krishnan & Ms. Rekha Raj, Research Scholars, MG University 
Kottayam; Dr. Muraleedharan, Thrissur; Ms. Swapna Gopinath; Mr. Sumit Jindal & 
Hardeep Rawat, Lady Shri Ram College; Mr. Sandeep Misra, Data Analyst, CWDS; 
Mr. Sundaresh, computer assistant, CWDS; Ms. Sheetal Agarwal, Research Assistant, 
Delhi University; Ms. Sreekumari, WISCOMP.
Dr. Ratnabali Banerjee, Dr. Srinivas and Mr. Gulshan Kumar of the Regional 
Offices of the UGC went way beyond the call of duty to take forward the work of the 
Task Force, facilitating dissemination followed by discussions and workshops to elicit 
responses to the Questionnaire prepared by the Task Force for all HEIs under the 
ambit of the UGC.
Particular mention must be made of the contribution and assistance of the staff of 
the CWDS and Lady Shri Ram College (LSR), New Delhi, to the work of the Task force. 
Thanks are also due to the several Women’s Development Cells (WDCs) and Women’s 
Studies Centres of colleges and universities for candidly sharing the experiences and 
challenges of their work on the ground.
It is our hope that this Report will generate the much needed follow up action on 
campuses to ensure safety, gender sensitization and zero tolerance for harassment 
and gender based violence in the landscape of Higher Education in the country.
xiii
The recommendations of this Report are based on the principles of Equality and 
Justice guaranteed by our Constitution and draw on the Rights to Dignity, Bodily 
Autonomy and Integrity, enunciated in the Bill of Rights for Women in the Justice 
Verma Committee Report of January 2013. To all those who envision universities and 
colleges as spaces where education can transform attitudes, perceptions and practices 
to nurture both equality and freedom for all sections, particularly women, this Report, 
we hope, will provide a useful reference point.
List of Members of the Task Force
1.
Dr. Meenakshi Gopinath, Member, UGC
Chair
2.
Prof. Mary E. John, CWDS, New Delhi
Co-Chair
3.
Prof. Yogendra Yadav, Member UGC
Member
4.
Prof. Uma Chakravarti, University of Delhi
Member
5.
Prof. Gopal Guru, JNU, New Delhi
Member
6.
Prof. Wasbir Hussain, CDPS, Guwahati
Member
7.
Prof. Sanjay Srivastava, IEG, Delhi
Member
8.
Prof. Susie Tharu, EFLU, Hyderabad
Member
9.
Dr. Kulwinder Kaur, Jamia Millia Islamia .
Member
10.
Dr. (Mrs.) Archana Thakur, DS, UGC
Coordinator
Inducted Members:
1.	 Dr. Minoti Chatterji, Kamla Nehru College, New Delhi.
2.	 Dr. Janaki Abraham, Delhi School of Economics, Delhi
3.	 Prof. Ayesha Kidwai, Jawaharlal Nehru University
4.	 Ms. Anjali Bharadwaj, Satark Nagarik Sangathan, Delhi
Page | 1
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
I.	
Introduction
Institutions of higher education in India today are at a critical juncture in relation to the 
basic ideals of equality enshrined in the Constitution. The recent expansion in higher 
education has made colleges and universities more demographically democratic than 
ever before, with growing diversity and heterogeneity among social groups. Women 
constitute 42 per cent of all students in higher education in India today. At the same 
time this closing gender gap hides on-going inequalities and disparities among 
women and men, which can only be approached with an intersectional analysis that 
combines gender with region, class, caste, religion, ability and sexuality among others. 
As institutions of higher education engaged in teaching, research and the spread of 
knowledge, (Higher Educational Institutions (HEIs) are well placed to reflect on, 
become sensitized to and oppose all forms of discrimination and harassment, especially 
sexual harassment on campuses across the country. Claims of equality, dignity and 
the ability to live, work and study without fear of harassment are intrinsic ingredients 
of this moment.
Following the gang rape of December 16, 2012 in the city of Delhi and the 
widespread protests that followed, there has been a new phase of public awareness 
about the nature and extent of sexual violence in the country and the targeting of 
students more specifically. There is also more awareness of the misogyny prevalent in 
contemporary society. As more and more students access higher education in the hope 
of upward mobility, expanded knowledge and independent futures, the spectre of 
violence has come to mar the everyday lives and aspirations of the youth. Numerous 
cases of sexual violence are coming to light, whether it be in metropolitan India or in 
seemingly more backward locations.
This is the context within which the UGC set up a Task Force to explore the current 
situation prevailing on campuses across the country in relation to the safety of women 
Page | 2
and youth more generally. The Task Force was asked to examine the situation with 
a view to assess shortcomings both at the level of gender sensitization and sexual 
harassment related redressal systems, and to suggest measures to redress this.
The deliberations took place against the backdrop of the Convention to end all Forms 
of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW), the establishment of Vishaka guidelines in 
1998 by the UGC, and, more recently, the Justice Verma Committee Report and especially 
its Bill of Rights. Since the constitution of the Task Force, the Sexual Harassment at 
Workplace Act has been passed and so has been the Criminal Amendment Bill 2013.
II.	
Survey through questionnaires among universities and colleges 
under UGC
In order to determine the status of affairs among the universities and colleges under 
the purview of the UGC, the first task undertaken by the Task Force was to prepare 
a questionnaire eliciting information which was sent out by the UGC. About 1,300 
questionnaires were received and analysed. The best represented region was the South 
and the least was the North. It was obvious from the way in which most questionnaires 
were answered that the authorities were either defensive or in denial over issues 
pertaining to gender discrimination and sexual harassment on their campuses. The 
few who answered with some care provided insights into the problems that they faced. 
Very few colleges have committees functioning according to clear guidelines and face 
shortcomings in their functioning. These institutions also said that they are unclear 
about how to deal with issues of sexual harassment and sought clarity from the UGC. 
Several institutions declared that the absence of a complaint of sexual harassment 
implied that they were gender equal institutions. Other institutions left all issues 
of harassment to women’s development cells. The Report provides a more detailed 
analysis of the different views expressed through the questionnaires (See Section II). 
Women’s colleges answered the questionnaire as though issues of gender equality did 
not apply to them. Therefore it became evident that there is an urgent need to provide 
all institutions under the UGC with clear guidelines for addressing sexual harassment 
and for suggestions as to how to improve gender equality on their campuses.
Page | 3
III.	
Open Forums
The Task Force also undertook visits to different cities and universities and conducted 
Open Forums with face to face interaction with students, faculty and staff, and also 
met with senior administrators including Vice Chancellors and Principals (see Section 
III and Appendix 4). This provided valuable first hand inputs into the problems being 
faced by sexual harassment committees, the widespread harassment that has become 
a constant aspect of student life, and the many related problems that are preventing 
women students from being able to live and study with a sense of dignity, respect 
and security. Several infrastructural shortcomings were also evident, from lighting 
to toilets and hostel accommodation. Security guards are often part of the problem 
in terms of their attitude and behaviour and do not inspire trust. It became clear that 
securitization and protectionist approaches will not provide safety on campuses. 
Issues of excessive monitoring, and problematic forms of protecting women students 
through discriminatory hostel timings, imposition of dress codes and so on came 
to light. Many of the issues that emerged through the interaction of the Task Force 
members through these open forums have been discussed in detail in the Report. The 
Open Forums were widely hailed by all those who participated in them and it was 
recommended that these be replicated in other universities and even be considered as 
an annual event to raise awareness among all members of the campus community.
IV.	
Gender Sensitization
A major finding and deep concern for the Task Force has been that the weakest 
aspect of our institutions of higher education is their lack of gender sensitivity. 
This is evident from the mode in which the questionnaires were answered (one cannot 
speak of course of the many institutions who did not answer them) as well as the Open 
Forums. This means that there is a widespread culture of not speaking out on issues, 
one which affects the more socially and institutionally vulnerable students the most.
Gender sensitization is not a matter for students alone but is required in all 
colleges and universities, and for all sections of the community - students, faculty 
in all disciplines, support staff and administration.
Page | 4
Gender equality is not addressed in most campuses whether in the classroom or 
beyond. There is a definite need to work towards a positive interpersonal climate on 
campuses. Furthermore there is considerable confusion on the subject of discrimination 
and harassment, where women are usually the first to be blamed or where constraining 
their movements is thought of as the solution. Basic rights to dignity and respect are 
also not sufficiently in evidence. There is confusion and ignorance about women’s 
rights, questions of sexuality, interaction among peers, norms of masculinity and 
femininity, and an understanding of the diverse and heterogeneous composition of 
college and university campuses.
To provide a concrete means for addressing gender sensitization on campuses, 
the Task Force has provided a course module on gender sensitization in this report 
that could be disseminated and used as a possible model. The different sections of the 
course address citizenship and rights, the nature of power, the problem of violence, 
countering sexual harassment and issues of equality and freedom.
This section of the report also provides outlines of a series of workshops on 
gender, masculinity, issues pertaining to sexual harassment and knowledge about 
the law and rights. These workshops could be tailored according to the groups being 
sensitized. HEIs are encouraged to draw upon existing experts in the field to use these 
formats to sensitize all members of their campuses on issues pertaining to gender, 
sexual harassment, laws and rights.
V.	
Sexual Harassment in Universities and Colleges
This section of the report contextualises the basic perspectives and principles that 
must guide all HEIs in their task of addressing and redressing sexual harassment 
on campuses against the background of the Vishaka guidelines, and now the Sexual 
Harassment at Workplace Act 2013. The Report has emphasized that, in the context 
of institutions of higher education, the nature of combating sexual harassment as an 
alternative civic redressal system can and must be given its fullest scope. Universities 
are not merely ‘workplaces’ where faculty and non­teaching staff are employed but are 
places where students come to learn and be trained for their professional careers, and 
Page | 5
to realise their full potential as individuals. It is therefore imperative that all students, 
particularly women students, are provided with a safe and dignified environment 
in which they are able to achieve these goals, because only then will they be able to 
realise the constitutional promise of equality. The goal of Sexual Harassment policy 
is to end the problem faced by the student/employee through an internal system of 
relief that is easy to access, and thereby to provide an effective remedy to the aggrieved 
complainant as quickly as possible so that s/he can continue to study and develop 
without further impediments. The larger perspective guiding sexual harassment 
policy is to be educational, preventive, corrective and, when punitive, to carry out 
processes following a complaint with sensitivity, rigour and justice.
The broad principles and guidelines to be followed have been laid out in the report 
and are as follows: Confidentiality (both with regard to the details of the complaint 
and the identity of the complainant the absence of which is the biggest impediment 
to coming forward), providing a context of non-coercion as well as interim relief, fair 
enquiry in terms of procedures and the composition of the complaints committee, 
including recognizing that existing rules will require updating from time to time to 
be in consonance with the law of the land, and an approach that is oriented towards 
redressal and being educational. Committees must be representative of the entire 
community of an HEI, and the administration must to be seen to be endorsing 
practices of zero tolerance towards sexual harassment.
The Task Force recognizes that all women and some men can become targets of 
sexual harassment and violence. Such vulnerability is compounded by other axes of 
discrimination and exploitation, based on class, rural location, caste, minority identity, 
sexuality and so on. Many of these remain invisible or stigmatized and therefore 
sensitivity must be developed to enable students and staff who are especially vulnerable 
in these ways to come forward and seek redressal in an atmosphere of trust.
There are also specific structural contexts in HEIs that render particular groups 
more vulnerable in ways that are often invisible. The first of these are people with 
disabilities who are placed in relations of unique dependency for their basic needs, 
and which is open to abuse. Secondly special mention must be made of research 
students who are studying and working under a supervisor. Given the singular power 
that such faculty can have over the future of such students, an ethics of supervision 
Page | 6
that prevents the abuse of power through sexual harassment is required. Finally, 
mention needs to be made of students, teachers and staff in the pure sciences, where 
the perceived gender neutrality in the teaching practices of the sciences can make it 
harder to recognize social problems and power relations. Research undertaken in a 
collaborative mode, involving significant funding can also compound dependency on 
supervisors which is open to the abuse of power. Working in laboratories with long 
hours and in relatively isolated conditions requires measures that render them safe 
for women to work in with a sense of security.
Among the staff and faculty, contract workers, junior faculty, ad hoc or temporary 
teachers are in vulnerable forms of employment and are therefore also susceptible to 
harassment. Gender sensitization measures must also be extended to such groups.
Intimate partner violence must also be recognised and addressed as a valid and 
critical Sexual Harassment issue. Sensitivity here is of the utmost importance, including 
the requirement of counselling, if necessary for both parties in a complaint.
VI.	
Recommendations
As required by the TOR laid down to the Task Force by the UGC, this Report concludes 
with a number of strong recommendations for further action.
1.	
Setting up a Gender Sensitization Unit within the UGC. This will act as a nodal 
division to give effect to the policy of zero tolerance of gender based violence on 
campuses of colleges and Universities.
2.	
The Problem of Protectionism: Campus safety policies should not result in 
securitization, such as over monitoring or policing or curtailing the freedom of 
movement, specially for women.
3.	
Gender Sensitization: ALL members of higher educational institutions 
must undergo processes of gender sensitization, whether students, faculty, 
administration or support staff. All students must undergo some course or 
workshop during their period of study. Promotions for staff and faculty should 
be contingent on participation in gender sensitization programmes.
Page | 7
4.	
Sexual Harassment: All HEIs must formulate guidelines for dealing with 
sexual harassment in their respective institutions, whether they be autonomous, 
affiliating, co-educational or women’s colleges. The proposed UGC unit on 
gender sensitization will provide a template to help institutions in this regard 
and allay fears of non-compliance.
	
HEIs must become sensitized to those whose social or structural location renders 
them especially vulnerable to sexual harassment, whether among students or 
staff.
5.	
Preparation of a UGC Booklet: A handbook on sexual harassment and gender 
sensitization to be prepared for all faculties.
6.	
Preparation of Courses and Workshop Modules: A model Gender sensitization 
course has been prepared and a series of workshops on gender, masculinity, 
sexual harassment, rights and the law have been suggested. All Refresher courses 
must have a gender component including issues relating to sexual harassment.
7.	
University Services and Infrastructure: Counselling services must be 
professional and provided on a full time basis. The provision of sufficient lighting 
in and around campuses, reliable public transport, toilet facilities and health 
(including sexual health) are necessary requirements for women’s security 
and freedom from harassment. Hostel accommodation must be enhanced for 
women students. A requisite number of female security personnel are required 
and all security staff must be gender sensitized.
8.	
Women’s Studies Centres/ Women’s Development Cells
	
Women’s studies centres in universities and women’s development cells in colleges 
must be strengthened and provided the means to function autonomously. At the 
same time they should be enabled to work together with gender sensitization 
cells and committees on campuses on educational and preventive work.
9.	
Recommended Projects/ Research
	
Collation of existing materials and mapping exercises can be undertaken 
including prioritizing research proposals concerning sexual harassment and 
violence in universities and colleges.
Page | 8
10.	
Regulatory Aspects: The NAAC in its assessment and accreditation procedures 
must build in an essential gender audit component as part of the evaluation 
process. Promotions of faculty and staff to be contingent upon participation in 
gender sensitization programmes.
Page | 9
I.     INTRODUCTION
1.1	
Higher Education and Gender in Contemporary India
Colleges and universities are complex institutions engaged in the education of future 
generations. Institutions of higher education today are more diverse than ever before, 
and, in terms of numbers, also have a growing proportion of women among their 
ranks. To this extent these are institutions that may be the closest to fulfilling the 
potential of India’s ideals of equality and social justice. Furthermore, members within 
these institutions are in a position to reflect on existing hierarchies and differences, 
oppose the growing prevalence of violence, especially sexual violence and harassment, 
and impart ideals of rights, dignity and respect.
Nothing less than a quiet revolution has been taking place in institutions of higher 
education in recent years. In terms of growth and expansion the current situation 
is unprecedented. There has been much discussion within the UGC and among 
educational experts about the extent and scope of current expansion, and especially 
about the accuracy of some of the numbers put out from various sources, such as 
the Select Educational Statistics, the Census and the various rounds of the National 
Sample Survey Organisation. Without getting into the details, it is enough to go with 
the figures put out by the UGC itself on the eve of the Twelfth Five Year Plan (2012-
17), with 31,935 higher educational institutions as of August 2011. Out of these just 
over 600 are universities. The total enrolment is approximately 13 million in colleges 
and 2 million in universities. (Given all the problems of getting accurate figures and 
knowing full well about the number of existing and functioning institutions that are 
not recognised, the actual numbers would be somewhat higher.) In other words, 
there is no gainsaying the enormous expansion that has taken place, much of it 
very recent. Indeed, even anecdotally we can vouch for the mushrooming of higher 
educational institutions of all kinds across the country, some with state financing and 
many more from private sources. The most common higher educational institution 
Page | 10
is the undergraduate college with its arts, science and commerce faculties, and this 
is reflected in the proportion of students - 42 per cent are Arts, 19 per cent Science, 
18 per cent Commerce, 4 per cent Education, and 10 per cent Engineering, 3 per cent 
Medicine, 2 per cent law, to take only the most prominent.
Out of total enrolment, on average 42 per cent are women, and in many states they 
are in the majority. In comparison to the figure of 10 per cent at the time of independence, 
this situation of near parity at the demographic level is a significant aspect of the 
revolution that has been underway, one that has been growing at a heightened rate in 
the last decades. Gross Enrolment Ratios of young people in the age group 18-22 years 
from different social groups using National Sample Survey data for the year 2007-08, 
give the following picture: Urban (19 per cent) and Rural (11 per cent), Scheduled 
Caste (12 per cent), Scheduled Tribe (7.7 per cent), OBCs (14.7 per cent) and upper 
castes (26.64 per cent). Muslims have an enrolment ratio of 9.5 per cent. Though there 
is no macro data on people with disabilities, here too there has been positive change 
even if the numbers are small. Other groups that remain overwhelmingly invisible 
are sexual minorities, who are very vulnerable to discrimination and harassment. In 
urban India, upper caste youth have crossed 35 per cent enrolment levels with parity 
between men and women in terms of overall enrolment. There is therefore a complex 
combination of uneven representation together with very significant rates of growth 
in enrolment from social groups that even as recently as 20 years ago were effectively 
marginalised if not excluded from higher education. It is therefore necessary to adopt 
an intersectional analysis such that gender, class, caste, region, religion, disability and 
so on, are not treated as stand-alone categories or aspects of identity.1
What these numbers are telling us, to put it simply, is that the much cited 
demographic dividend representing the youth of our country are placing their faith in 
higher education more than ever before in Indian’s history. Families are sending their 
daughters and sons to college or university for several years, sometimes at considerable 
cost to themselves, in the hope of a new and better future. Huge aspirations for change 
are therefore being incubated in HEIs in India today. Claims of equality, dignity and 
1 For further details see Mary E. John “Gender and Higher Education in the Time of Reforms”, Contemporary 
Education Dialogue, vol.9, no. 2 July 2012.
Page | 11
the ability to live, work and study without fear of harassment are intrinsic ingredients 
of this moment.
1.1.2	 HEIs and Gender Equity, Safety and Sensitization: Some Issues 
and Concerns
The responsibility of universities (and colleges) as modern educational institutions is 
not only to treat women students and all youth regardless of gender as citizens who 
have a right to safety but to assist them physically, emotionally and intellectually 
to claim that right and seek to expand its contours. Every effort also needs to be 
made to provide the college and university community with an atmosphere in which 
education (in both ‘universes’ of citizenship and of knowledge) can be freely and 
fearlessly pursued. In more senses than one, these educational spaces need nurturing, 
to enhance capacity to anticipate new realities and set the terms of a truly democratic, 
liberatory discourse for society at large.
Social conditions vary from state to state and the composition of university and 
college communities displays distinct patterns depending on their size, type and 
location and how entrenched feudal and patriarchal tendencies are in a particular 
milieu. At the same time, the vulnerability of women seems to be pervasively high2 
(see Appendix 3). There are signs of widespread misogyny in contemporary society 
as women from all groups and regions seek to realise their full potential, especially 
through education and higher education. The need is to build self-correcting 
mechanisms in our society but more especially in institutions of Higher Education. The 
Constitution needs imaginative interpretation in terms of contemporary conditions 
and contemporary morality, and the role of HEIs in this enterprise remains crucial. 
Bodily Autonomy and the Right to Dignity are the core principles around which a 
contemporary discourse needs to be strengthened. Combating gender based inequities, 
discrimination and all forms of violence against girls and women has been accorded 
overriding priority in the Twelfth Plan. This is seen as essential in enabling women to 
2 The National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data (although conservative and based on the number of 
FIRs filed in police stations) showed 24, 923 rape cases, 45,351 cases of molestation and 9,173 cases of verbal 
harassment of women for the year 2012. See Appendix 3.
Page | 12
participate fully in development processes and in fulfilling their social, economic, civil 
and political rights. Otherwise the potential for genuine democracy and the lessening 
of structural inequalities through the social mobility promised by access to higher 
education may remain unfulfilled
Given the realities of a heterogeneous and diverse student body, purely punitive 
approaches to issues of the ‘safety’ of women and gender sensitization serves little 
purpose in terms of meaningful intervention however “well intentio ned” they may 
be. Instead approaches must be educative, preventive and correctional.
The issue of violence against women on campuses in particular is situated in the 
larger contexts of the multiplicities of inequities that are only beginning to be redressed. 
Modes of inclusion therefore do not preclude experiences of alienation, isolation and 
resentment among students and staff. Moreover, colleges and universities are spaces 
in which people with different ideas and patterns of socialization about gender issues 
interact. Cultures of inclusion and sensitivity to diversity become an important pre-
requisite to respond to violence of all kinds and more especially when women are 
targeted. Gender justice on campuses is clearly not an ‘isolated operation’ requiring 
quick fix solutions, but an exercise involving a perspectival shift that is able to set 
down norms of respect, non­discrimination and the unacceptability of any abuse of 
power, along with robust processes of debate, discussion and dialogue. This has to 
be the purpose of a new pedagogy within which issues of gender justice are seen as 
an integral part - not as ‘women’s issues’ to be ghettoized or added on to academic or 
curricular agendas as a ‘requirement’ or afterthought.
Yet, some immediate measures can be taken to ‘arrest the tide’ of violence that 
has lately assumed alarming proportions on campuses, as the incident of attempted 
murder and suicide in a Central University in July 2013 has demonstrated.
A non-discriminatory non-threatening ethos that respects entitlements in 
universities can also help overcome the reticence and the fear of reprisals that the 
action permitted against “false, malicious and frivolous complaints” (by the Sexual 
Harassment Act) could evoke. The responsibility that this clause does not serve as 
protection for the guilty rests with the HEIs. The transparency and fair mindedness with 
which they handle power hierarchies and the power dynamics within their increasingly 
Page | 13
heterogeneous communities, will have a decisive impact on the constitutional rights 
that they must strive to protect, of all sections (especially women) at all times.
1.2	
Sexual Violence and Harassment in the Contemporary Context
The brutal rape in New Delhi on December 16, 2012 of a 23 year old student evoked a 
public outcry and sparked massive protests. Debates and discussions nationally and 
globally served as yet another grim reminder of the range of violence that women - 
regardless of their location - confront on an everyday basis. It is not accidental that this 
young woman was a student. The intensity of the demonstrations that were mostly 
spontaneous (not spearheaded by political formations or their leadership) brought home 
the ability and tenacity of a large group of young people irrespective of their own political, 
social or other affiliations to demand reform, accountability and responsibility of those 
in charge of providing for the safety and security of citizens, particularly women. Since 
that particular event, there has been a greater awareness of the extent of the violence that 
women contend with, from the most everyday to the more exceptional. Moreover, it has 
become apparent that, for a welter of reasons, most forms of violence do not receive either 
attention or justice. Right next to the capital city in the neighbouring state of Haryana 
a series of violent acts of rape and murder have been taking place with frightening 
regularity, too many of them young girls and women, school or college students, many 
of them Dalit or OBC. Their aspirations are no different from the December 16 victim, 
even though they have not sparked the same level of protest.
These cases are helping to unpack layers of the debate around issues of gender 
and misogyny that had become ‘invisibilized’ in public discourse over the years. A 
positive fall out of some of the ‘official’ responses that followed was to situate the 
debate within the frame of Rights and claims to ‘gender’ justice and equality. These 
were given an early fillip by the UN Convention to End all forms of Discrimination 
Against Women (CEDAW) in 1979 to which India became a signatory in 1993.
Those who “occupied” Raisina Hill and caught officialdom by surprise were by 
and large seeking the articulation and validation of a discourse that gave clarity and 
guidance so that out of all the sloganeering the message emerged to deliver Justice and 
Page | 14
not vengeance. While addressing the pervasiveness of gender based violence, structures 
of patriarchy and deep misogyny in society, it was vital to move away from the notion of 
women as ‘victims’ needing ‘protection’, recognise the sources of their vulnerability and 
demand that the institutions meant to safeguard women’s rights be made accountable.
1.3	
Vishaka Guidelines, Justice Verma Committee
1.3.1	
In its landmark judgment in 1997 (following Vishaka vs. State of Rajasthan), 
the Supreme Court had for the first time, acknowledged sexual harassment against 
women as a human rights violation, and outlined guidelines making it mandatory for 
employers to provide for sympathetic and non-retributive mechanisms to enforce the 
right to gender equality for working women.
The Vishaka Judgment was rightly seen as a major victory after years of 
sustained and relentless campaigning by women’s groups, activists and academicians  
(see Appendix 1b). It was spurred by the infamous Mathura and the Rameeza Bee Rape 
cases in the late 1970s and the Bhanwari Devi case in 1995, (in which a village worker 
or Sathin of the Women’s Development Programme in the State of Rajasthan was 
raped for trying to stop a child marriage from taking place by male family members, 
and which became the basis for the subsequent Supreme Court case). The Vishaka 
guidelines were created in order to make criminally culpable forms of sexual violence 
and harassment that were prevalent in places of work. Yet, nearly 16 years later, on 
October 29, 2012 the Supreme Court of India expressed its dismay that the Vishaka 
guidelines on sexual harassment in the workplace were followed more in breach than 
in substance and spirit by state functionaries3.
1.3.2 	 The Justice Verma Committee set up in the wake of the December 2012 tragedy 
3The data of a survey conducted in late 2012, by Prof. Reicha Tanwar, Director, Women’s Studies Research 
Centre, Kurukshetra University of 200 institutions of Higher Education in the country on the status of 
committees set up to deal with complaints of sexual harassment reveals that while there is a proforma 
‘formalistic’ compliance on setting up some mechanism, there is little clarity on the purpose/scope of their 
work. With a few glaring exceptions, the responses to questionnaires revealed little commitment to initiatives 
for sensitization or gender awareness on the campuses surveyed.
Page | 15
in its path breaking report (hereafter referred to as the Verma Committee Report) of 
January 23, 2013 on Amendments of Criminal Law pushed the envelope of jurisprudence 
on the issue of gender justice in hitherto unprecedented ways. In a scathing criticism 
of prevalent structures of criminal justice delivery within a largely patriarchal society, 
it placed the onus to provide “Adequate Safety Measures and Amenities in Respect 
of Women” squarely on the state and its various functionaries (pp 260 - 272). In 
addition to 14 Chapters on suggested reforms and 114 Appendices, its Conclusions 
and Recommendations provide some valuable inputs to the imperative that “the 
equality of women, being integral to the constitution, its denial is a sacrilege and a 
constitutional violation. Sustained constitutional violations mean that governance is 
not in accordance with the Constitution. A fortiori, all limbs of the state - the executive, 
the legislature as well as the judiciary - must respect women’s rights and must threat 
them in a “non-discriminatory manner” (Verma Committee Report, p 415). The Bill 
of Rights proposed by the Report (pp 429 - 433, Appendix 5), and chapter 14, on 
Education and Perception Reform, Appendix 6) have been appended to this Report 
as providing perspectives significant to the work of this Task Force.5
4 Chapter One -Constitutionalism, Republicanism, and Gender Equality, p 24, Chapter Two - Gender Justice 
and India’s Obligations under International Conventions, p 57, Chapter Three - Rape and Sexual Assault, p 
70, Chapter Four - Sexual Harassment at the Workplace, p 119, Chapter Five - Other Offences against Women, 
p 142, Chapter Six - Trafficking of Women and Children, p152, Chapter Seven - Child Sexual Abuse, p 200, 
Chapter Eight - Khap Panchayats and Honour Killings, p 225, Chapter Nine - Sentencing and Punishment, p 
234, Chapter Ten - Provision of Adequate Safety Measures and Amenities in respect of Women, p 260, Chapter 
Eleven - Medico-Legal Examination of the Victim, p 272, Chapter Twelve - Police Reforms, p 312, Chapter 
Thirteen - Electoral Reforms, p 340, Chapter Fourteen - Education and Perception Reform, p 383.
5 There are specific exhortations here to building alternative perspectives and perceptions in the education 
space e.g. 1) preventing stereotyping and ‘blinkered’ acculturation, 2) interrogating cultures of ‘replication 
and consensus’ in the context of caste and gender, 3) notions of manhood and masculinities and women as 
the repository of ‘honour’, 4) received structures of power and entitlement, 5) Recognizing discrimination, 
6) abuse of age, authority, power and position by teachers/mentors in the education space, 7) asymmetrical 
power relations 8) prevalence of transgressions, verbal abuse, and violence and harassment in schools and 
educational institutions, 9) the need for sexuality education, 10) Psycho-social effects of abuse, 11) Problematic 
construction of identities 12) kinds of peer pressure, 13) forms of corporatization impinging on autonomy and 
creativity in the education space, 14) intolerance of alternative sexualities 15) need for ‘alternative’ life skills 
training etc.
Page | 16
1.4	
Sexual Harassment at the Workplace Act 2013
With the enactment of the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, 
Prohibition and Redressal Act 2013, (Sexual Harassment Act) in April 2013, the notion 
of bodily integrity as explicated in the Verma Committee’s Bill of Rights for Women) 
has been given legal sanctity. Sexual harassment is now considered as a violation of 
the fundamental right of a woman to equality as guaranteed under Article 14 and 15 of 
the Constitution of India and her right to life and to live with dignity as per Article 21 
of the Constitution. It has also been considered as a violation of a right to practice or to 
carry out any occupation, trade or business under Article 19 (1) (g) of the Constitution 
which includes a right to a safe environment free from harassment.
The definition of sexual harassment in the Act of 2013 is broadly in line with the 
Apex Court’s definition in the Vishaka Judgment.6 It also stipulates that a woman shall 
not be subjected to sexual harassment at any workplace. As per the statute, presence or 
occurrence of circumstances of implied or explicit promise of preferential treatment in 
employment; treatment about present or future employment; interference with work 
or creating an intimidating or offensive or hostile work environment or humiliating 
treatment likely to affect the woman employee’s health or safety may all amount to 
sexual harassment.
The broad definition of the ‘workplace’ gives the Sexual Harassment Act a very 
wide ambit. The statute, inter alia, applies to government bodies, public and private 
sector organizations, NGOs, organizations carrying on commercial, vocational, 
educational entertainment, industrial and medical activities including Educational 
Institutions, Sports institutions and stadiums used for training individuals. As per 
the Sexual Harassment Act, a workplace also covers within its scope places visited by 
employees during the course of employment or for reasons arising out of employment 
6 This includes any unwelcome sexually determined behaviour (whether directly or by implication) such as 
physical contact and advances, demand or request for sexual favours, sexually coloured remarks, showing 
pornography, or any other unwelcome physical verbal or non-verbal conduct of a sexual nature. See ‘India’s 
New Labour Law’, Nishith Desai Associates, Veena Gopalakrishnan, Ajay Singh Solanki and Vikram Shroff, 
April 30, 2013.
Source: http://www.mondaq.com/india/x/238076/Discrimination+Disability+Sexual+Harassment/Indias
+New+Labour+Law+Prevention+Of+Sexual+Harassment+At+The+Workplace
Page | 17
- including transportation provided by the employer for the purpose of commuting to 
and from the place of employment.7
The definition of ‘employee’ under the Sexual Harassment Act is fairly wide and 
covers regular, temporary, ad hoc employees, individuals engaged on daily wage 
basis, either directly or through an agent, contract labour, co-workers, probationers, 
trainees and apprentices, with or without the knowledge of the principal employer, 
whether for remuneration or not, working on a voluntary basis or otherwise, whether 
the terms of employment are express or implied.
The Sexual Harassment Act requires an employer to set up an Internal Complaints 
Committee (“ICC”) at each office or branch of an organization employing at least 10 
employees. The Sexual Harassment Act also sets out the constitution of the committees, 
the process to be followed for making a complaint and inquiring into the complaint 
in a time bound manner. It also empowers the ICC to recommend to the employer, 
at the request of the aggrieved employee, interim measures such as (i) transfer of the 
aggrieved woman or the respondent to any other workplace; or (ii) granting leave to 
the aggrieved woman up to a period of 3 months in addition to her regular statutory/ 
contractual leave entitlement.
The Act mandates that the employer or the person designated in-charge of any 
workplace nominate an Internal Complaints Committee (ICC) for every branch of 
the workplace that employs more than ten persons. One-half of the total members 
of the ICC must be women, and it must comprise: (a) a woman Presiding Officer, 
chosen from amongst the employees of the workplace and necessarily employed at 
a senior level: (b) not less than two Members from amongst employees preferably 
committed to the cause of women or who have had experience in social work or have 
legal knowledge; (c) one member from amongst non-governmental organizations or 
associations committed to the cause of women or a person familiar with the issues 
relating to sexual harassment.
7 Section 2(o), Sexual Harassment Act, 2013. Two excellent presentations of the Act and its interpretations are 
available at sources:
http://www.slideshare.net/RohitNaagpal/prevention-and-prohibition-24169664
http://www.slideshare.net/sukanya.patwardhan/law-the-sexual-harassment-of-women- 
atworkplace?utm_source=slideshow02&utm_medium=ssemail&utm_campaign=share_slideshow_
loggedout
Page | 18
A Flowchart showing the process for Complaint and Inquiry is at Appendix 
2. It depicts in brief, the process to be followed by the aggrieved employee to make 
the complaint and by the employer to inquire into the complaint. The law allows 
female employees to request for conciliation in order to settle the matter
 although a 
monetary settlement should not be made as a basis of conciliation. (See Appendix 
13 for details on conciliation.) 
In addition to ensuring compliance with the other provisions stipulated, the 
Sexual Harassment Act casts certain obligations upon the employer to, inter alia, 
i.	
provide a safe working environment 
ii.	
display conspicuously at the workplace, the penal consequences of indulging in 
acts that may constitute sexual harassment and the composition of the Internal 
Complaints Committee 
iii.	
organise workshops and awareness programmes at regular intervals for 
sensitizing employees on the issues and implications of workplace sexual 
harassment and organizing orientation programmes for members of the Internal 
Complaints Committee 
iv.	
treat sexual harassment as a misconduct under the service rules and initiate 
action for misconduct.
v.	
The employer is also required to monitor the timely submission of reports by the 
ICC. 
If an employer fails to constitute an Internal Complaints Committee or does not 
comply with any provisions contained therein, the Sexual Harassment Act prescribes 
a monetary penalty of up to INR 50,000. A repetition of the same offence could result 
in the punishment being doubled and / or de-recognition. 
The government is in turn required to set up ‘Local Complaints Committees’ 
(“LCC”) at the district level to investigate complaints regarding sexual harassment 
from establishments where the ICC has not been constituted. 
The ICC also needs to involve a member from “amongst non-governmental 
organizations or associations committed to the cause of women or who have had 
experience in social work or have legal knowledge.” 
Page | 19
The law allows the employer to initiate action against the complainant in case of a 
“false or malicious complaint”. This provision, although meant to protect the  employer’s 
interests, is likely to prove a deterrence to reporting such incidents and filing complaints, 
which may in turn defeat the purpose for which the law has been enacted. 
In case the allegation has been proved, the Sexual Harassment Act allows the ICC 
to recommend to the employer to deduct from the respondent’s salary such sums it 
may consider appropriate to be paid to the aggrieved woman
8. 
The Sexual Harassment Act only addresses the issue of protection of women 
employees and is not gender neutral. Male employees, if subjected to sexual harassment, 
cannot claim protection or relief under the law
9. However, many guidelines against 
sexual harassment in universities have taken the next step to becoming gender plural. 
They recognise that men can be subjected to sexual harassment beyond ragging 
incidents, especially if they are identified as belonging to a sexual minority. Such 
cases also require all the efforts of educational, corrective and if necessary punitive 
responses through proper procedures. 
The Criminal Law (Amendment) Act 2013, took the historic step of amending 
the Indian Penal Code (IPC) to also include several other new offenses (in addition 
to rape) such as causing grievous hurt through aid attacks, sexual harassment use of 
criminal force on a woman with intent to disrobe, voyeurism and stalking as inviting 
punishment. Importantly the Act further amended the IPC to criminalize the failure 
of a public servant to obey direction under law. It has also made the non-treatment of 
a raped woman by any public or private hospital an offence. While the Criminal Law 
(Amendment) Act has introduced long overdue changes in the law, it is recognized that 
this can be seen as but a first step in the long journey to ending violence in India through 
criminal law governance and police reforms and last but not least, Curricular Reform. 
It is here that institutions of Higher Education can and must play a pivotal role 
in effectively combating the entrenched patriarchal practices/structures and mind 
sets and the corresponding cultures of impunity and silence that sustain them, 
8 This may require certain corresponding changes to the Payment of Wages Act, 1936 of India,
which restricts the nature of deductions that may be made from an employee’s salary.	
9 Ibid.
Page | 20
and conspire/militate against gender justice and perpetuate pervasive violence in 
society. 
1.5 Establishment of the UGC Task Force and its TOR 
The Task Force was set up on January 8, 2013 Vide Office Order No. F.1-67/2013(Cm.) 
by the Chairman, UGC (Appendix 1a). It comprised the following members:-
1.	
Dr. Meenakshi Gopinath, Member, UGC	
….	
Chair 
2.	
Prof. Mary E. John, CWDS, New Delhi	
….	
Co-Chair 
3.	
Prof. Yogendra Yadav, Member UGC	
….	
Member 
4.	
Prof. Uma Chakravarti, University of Delhi	
….	
Member 
5.	
Prof. Gopal Guru, JNU, New Delhi	
….	
Member 
6.	
Prof.  Wasbir Hussain, CDPS, Guwahati	
….	
Member 
7.	
Prof. Sanjay Srivastava, IEG, Delhi	
….	
Member 
8.	
Prof. Susie Tharu, EFLU, Hyderabad	
….	
Member 
9.	
Dr. Kulwinder Kaur, Jamia Millia Islamia	
….	
Member 
10.	
Dr. (Mrs.) Archana Thakur, DS, UGC	
….	
Coordinator 
1.5.1	 The Terms of Reference of the Task Force are the following:-
(i)	
To analyse and assess the extent to which the existing arrangements for safety 
of women, both students and employees in particular, and youth in general, are 
adequate on the campuses of the institutions; 
(ii)	
To identify short comings in the existing systems and to suggest measures to put 
in place strong safeguards. 
(iii)	 To evaluate grievance Redressal mechanisms for gender specific concerns and to 
suggest measures to strengthen them; 
Page | 21
(iv)	 To suggest academic measures and action programmes to bring about changes 
in practices and attitudes within society towards recognizing the fundamental 
right to gender equality; 
(v) 	 To suggest how gender education and sensitization can be made an integral part 
of the university curriculum in all subject domains; 
(vi) 	 To suggest how awareness of gender sensitive issues can be made an essential 
eligibility criterion in the future recruitment of university staff -both teaching as 
well as non-teaching. 
Prof. Yogendra Yadav and Prof. Wasbir Hussain being unable to participate in 
the deliberations owing to existing commitments, the Task Force co-opted four more 
members with wide experience and expertise in working on issues relating to gender 
justice and violence against women. They include: 
1. 	
Dr. Minoti Chatterji, Kamla Nehru College. 
2.	
Dr. Janaki Abraham, Delhi School of Economics, Delhi 
3.	
Prof. Ayesha Kidwai, Jawaharlal Nehru University 
4.	
Ms. Anjali Bharadwaj, Satark Nagarik Sangathan, Delhi 
In addition to scheduled meetings a series of consultative meetings, site preparatory 
visits and campus interactive visits were conducted by the members (see Appendix 4). 
Detailed deliberations at the very inception informed the Methodology that 
the Task Force adopted which could serve as future praxis for the follow up on the 
recommendations in this Report. 
1.5.2	 Orientation and Methodology 
There was broad consensus that several recommendations of the Verma Committee 
Report provide extremely valuable perspectives that the Task Force could draw upon 
that are both unprecedented and path breaking. In addition, the promulgation of The 
Sexual Harassment Act in April 2013 and the Criminal Law Amendment Act add a 
further imperative to compliance on the part of HEIs in particular. The Report of the 
Page | 22
Task Force is premised largely on the constitutional guarantee of equality for gender 
justice. It also draws on the current discourse on women’s entitlements and Rights to 
bodily integrity, dignity, work, and Equality of Access to Education. 
Universities need to be particularly familiarized with the proposed Bill of Rights 
for Women in the Verma Committee Report, (Appendix 5) and also the section on 
Education and Perception Reform as set out in Chapter 14 of the Verma Committee 
Report (Appendix 6). 
It was agreed that: 
1.5.3	
The widest possible publicity be given to the existence of the Task Force and 
its openness to inputs from all sections (and constituencies) of the Higher Education 
space. To this effect, the UGC website established an on-line response link to solicit 
inputs, suggestions and concerns. An advertisement was also issued in some national 
dailies to elicit suggestions of other stake holders in the Higher Education sector. 
1.5.4	
Mandatory responses and feedback from all HEIs (Higher Education Institutes) 
covered under 2(f) and 12(b) be elicited on a questionnaire regarding  (a) Existing 
arrangements for the safety of students, women and employees on campus, the nature 
of complaints received, and specific safety issues; (b) Gender equality and sensitization 
measures on campus; (c) gender related courses offered on Campus; (d) Comments 
and suggestions for the UGC. 
1.5.5	
Members of the Task Force therefore undertook a number of activities in order 
to fulfil the TOR. Questionnaires sent out to all HEIs under the UGC and a number 
of face to face Open Forums were undertaken in order to gain some understanding 
of the situation within HEIs. Members met with senior administrators and consulted 
with Committees dealing with Sexual Harassment on campuses. The experience of 
two long standing Committees and their Guidelines in the University of Delhi and 
the Jawaharlal Nehru University were particularly valuable. (see Appendix 11 and 
12.) The main chapters of this Report provide feedback and reflections based on these 
efforts. The Report concludes with a set of recommendations for the UGC. 
Page | 23
II.   QUESTIONNAIRE BASED SURVEY AMONG 
UNIVERSITIES AND COLLEGES
2.1 	
Method of eliciting information from all institutions under the 
purview of the UGC through questionnaires 
The Terms of Reference of the UGC appointed Task Force began by asking the  Task 
Force to assess the extent to which “the existing arrangements for safety of  women, 
both students and employees in particular, and youth in general, are adequate on 
the campuses of the institutions”. Towards this end, the first major method adopted 
by the Task Force was to prepare a questionnaire to elicit information on existing 
arrangements for addressing safety, the presence of a policy on sexual harassment, 
and related issues pertaining to gender sensitization measures on campuses. (The 
questionnaire has been attached to this Report as Appendix 7). In February 2013, with 
a covering letter from the UGC Chairperson, this questionnaire was sent to all the 
universities and colleges across the country that come under the purview of the UGC, 
with the request to fill it in and return it to the UGC within a month. All in all, 1,307 
questionnaires were received by May 2013, a majority of which (1,017) were sent via 
e-mail while the rest (320) were received by post, including 83 universities and a large 
number of colleges from the southern region. The overall quality of the information 
received has been extremely uneven, ranging from a relatively small number of 
institutions that took care to provide honest information, supplemented with further 
evidence such as their annual reports, while many more unfortunately did not fill out 
the questions properly or simply declared them to be not applicable. In fact, we have 
to place on record that the mode in which many of the questionnaires were filled out 
betrayed defensiveness on the part of the institution concerned, if not insensitivity 
and denial. A handful of institutions did not answer the questionnaire but simply 
wrote a letter addressed to the UGC Chairperson saying they were taking care of 
safety related issues, and in some cases provided the names of the members of their 
complaints committees. Nonetheless, in spite of these limitations, these questionnaires 
Page | 24
have opened a window onto the state of affairs among the institutions that the UGC 
seeks to regulate and therefore the analysis is pertinent. Together with the more in 
depth Open Forums that were conducted face to face by the Task Force it is possible 
to make a provisional assessment of the situation prevailing and therefore also to 
consider what needs to be done. 
2.2 Background Information and Rationale 
2.2.1 Background Information: 
Out of the total number of valid questionnaires received, 83 were universities while 
the rest were colleges. The universities themselves provide an indication of the 
extreme heterogeneity that is now in existence, from a few older well established 
Central Universities in the capital region, some very new Central universities that 
have just set up their campuses (often in rural areas), a few State universities, and 
a significant number of private universities. The largest universities with their 
widespread affiliated college system reported over 2 lakh women students (which 
are over 50 per cent of the total student body), while the new universities reported 
only a few hundred women students overall. Among the colleges, 12 per cent were 
women only colleges while the rest were co-educational. Among the women’s 
colleges several were relatively speaking quite large with 2,000-3,000 students 
enrolled. On the other hand, among the co-educational institutions the number of 
women students ranged from a few hundred to a thousand or so. When it comes 
to their urban or rural location, interestingly, the break up was almost even, with 
46.5 per cent located in rural areas. In terms of government and private colleges 
there was considerable diversity, with proportionately more private institutions 
responding. 
Page | 25
Table 1: Region wise Distribution of State Responses 
Region 
No of Institutions 
North 
Uttar Pradesh
14
Uttarakhand
2 
Himachal Pradesh
1 
Jammu & Kashmir
1 
Punjab
7 
Haryana
12 
Delhi
7 
West 
Rajasthan
33
Gujarat
61 
Maharashtra
275 
Madhya Pradesh
46 
East 
Bihar
21 
Jharkhand
15 
Chattisgarh
19 
Odisha
96 
West Bengal
62 
North East 
Assam
48 
Arunachal Pr.
5 
Meghalaya
6 
Manipur
4 
Nagaland
10 
Sikkim
2 
Page | 26
Tripura
2 
Mizoram
5 
South 
Kerala
90 
Tamil Nadu
84 
Karnataka
266 
Andhra Pradesh
98 
Union Territories Excluding  Delhi 
Andaman & Nicobar
1 
Daman & Diu
1 
Puducherry
4 
Goa
8 
India
1,307
By way of the all India distribution of these institutions, Table 1 above provides 
the overall picture, with states grouped according to broad region --North, Northeast, 
East, West, South and Union Territories other than Delhi. The considerable unevenness 
among those institutions that chose to respond is very palpable, with the South overall 
at one end of the spectrum and the North at the other. (Though we acknowledge that 
there is a skew in the existing distribution of colleges across the country, with 33 per 
cent in the South and 10 per cent in the North, this cannot explain the near default on 
the part of the northern states 
overall, or the other patterns among the various states). Two states stand apart 
from the rest, with Maharashtra (275) and Karnataka (266) providing the highest 
number of responding institutions. Interestingly these are also the states from which a 
large number of questionnaires were sent by post, thus belying any claims that those 
with better electronic facilities were at an advantage. The UGC received information 
from the UGC director of its Eastern Regional office in Kolkata that a special letter 
with a copy of the questionnaire was sent to all the colleges of the Eastern region, 
with a list of these colleges attached. The best respondent in the Eastern region is, 
surprisingly, the state of Odisha from where 96 questionnaires were received. Andhra 
Page | 27
Pradesh, Kerala and Tamil Nadu in the South had responses in the range of 80-100, 
followed by Gujarat and West Bengal with just over 60. Noteworthy in the North East 
is the case of Assam with 48 responses, and small numbers from several north eastern 
states should also be pointed out. The worst respondents by far are in the northern 
states, with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh just entering double digits with 12 and 14 
questionnaires respectively. Delhi received filled questionnaires from several major 
universities but practically no colleges. 
2.2.2 Measures for Ensuring Safety 
The first question posed was whether the institutions had received any complaints on 
the grounds of sexual harassment, transport, lighting, toilet facilities, accommodation 
and counselling. Most institutions simply answered in the negative. But some of 
them admitted otherwise and with the following proportions – sexual harassment 
(7.3%), public transport (8.3%), lighting (14.8%), toilets (22.3%), accommodation 
(16.5%), health (17.8%), and counselling (10.2%). Thus lack of adequate toilet facilities 
figures the highest and actual complaints of sexual harassment the lowest. Those who 
provided details would say, typically, that they had an arrangement with a nearby 
doctor or clinic or that a doctor visited the campus occasionally (under health). 
Those who did admit to deficiencies reported that lighting was insufficient (in rural 
areas this included lack of boundary walls in some cases), that students had to rely 
on private transport including bicycles or tractors, that there were not enough or no 
hostels for women students and so on. Under counselling, there were frequent reports 
that members of the faculty including lady teachers were there to provide counselling 
where necessary, and some mentioned faculty from the psychology department. Only 
a miniscule number actually said that they had a full time counsellor on campus. 
The next question in this section was an open ended one about existing 
arrangements on the campus for ensuring the safety of both students and employees. 
No options were provided, and answers could be multiple. Answers were grouped 
under various thematic heads. From almost half the institutions (48.5%), by far the most 
common response was that of having some kind of grievance committee for women 
(some explicitly called them anti-sexual harassment committees, some clubbed them 
Page | 28
with anti-ragging cells which is a distinct UGC directive to all its colleges). In terms of 
security arrangements the following were mentioned – having CCTV 10.5 per cent (a 
number of colleges said that they wished to install these and requested for financial 
assistance to do so), female security guards 18.5 per cent, a vigilance committee 26.6 
per cent, and patrolling guards 10.9 per cent (in a few cases colleges reported that their 
own students and teachers monitored the campuses). 8.3 per cent said they provided 
a complaint box, a bare 4 per cent had a helpline number and 9 per cent mentioned 
a separate common room for girls, even separate stair cases in a few cases.  Smaller 
percentages responded with notions of ‘value education’, lectures and orientation 
programmes, and counselling as measures for ensuring safety. 
2.2.3 Sexual Harassment Policy and Experiences 
The next set of questions focused on the existence and use of a policy on sexual 
harassment. First and foremost it is important to highlight the question –which asked 
whether they had a Policy in the first place. This was an attempt to go beyond vague 
assertions of compliance. 57.1 per cent answered in the affirmative and 75 per cent 
out of these provided some information to substantiate their claim. Affiliated colleges 
often cited the policy of their university (this was particularly common in the case of 
Maharashtra), others provided information about the composition of the committee 
(which is not the same thing as having a set of guidelines). But too much reliance 
cannot be placed on these figures since in some case it was doubtful whether in fact 
there was any clear policy in place beyond moral statements, anti-ragging statements 
and such like. Moreover, there is widespread conflation between the presence of a 
women’s development cell or more rarely a women’s studies centre in a particular 
college or university and a distinct organizational structure to deal explicitly with 
sexual harassment. 
When probed further as to when the policy was established, 42 per cent answered 
that it had been established very recently, between 1-3 years, and 51 per cent between 
4-10 years, with only a tiny number having more long standing guidelines. (It should 
be remembered that the UGC sent out a directive after the Vishaka Guidelines came 
out.  A booklet  related to the Supreme Court judgement was prepared by the MHRD 
Page | 29
in 1999 and a letter sent out by the then UGC Chairperson Prof Armaiti Desai to all 
Vice Chancellors and Principals (dated March 1999) to set up sexual harassment 
committees to hear complaints. Only a few universities seem to have responded at 
that time, both central and state.) It is mandatory for sexual harassment committees 
to submit an annual report. When asked about this most admitted that they had not 
done so, with 24 per cent saying that they had. Here too we have to approach this 
figure with some caution since in some cases this simply amounts to a report by the 
women’s development cell. In terms of publicizing their policy, 32.8 per cent said that 
they put it on their notice board, 16.9 per cent that it is either in their prospectus or on 
their website, 12.5 per cent that they communicated this personally as and when 
necessary, 7.5 per cent that this happened in college assembly meetings. 
The next set of questions in this section pertains to actual complaints and the outcomes 
that followed. As might be expected, the vast majority (83.5%) declared that they had 
never received any complaints of sexual harassment in the history of their institution. 
Indeed, the fact that they had not received complaints was frequently a basis for an 
institution to state not only that the entire issue of sexual harassment did not affect them 
but also that gender discrimination on campus did not apply to them either (including 
filling out the questionnaire). With some exceptions, it is the universities who provided 
more information about the receipt of complaints and had by far the highest number of 
cases. 14.2 per cent had between 1-4 complaints and these were predominantly colleges, 
while 2.5 per cent had between 5-12 complaints over the last two years, of which 20 
were universities. A number of respondents said that the complaints were ‘minor’ or 
inconsequential and resolved ‘immediately’. In response to the question as to how long 
it took to deal with a complaint 15.2 per cent claimed that it would not be more than 1-2 
days (and this included some who said this even though they had never received any), 
about 8.8 per cent said 1 week, while more realistic periods were once again provided 
by universities, ranging from 1 to 6 months.  About 60 per cent of those who admitted 
to having received complaints said that they were able to resolve them. 
To the question as to whether they had encountered shortcomings, about half 
admitted that they had.  Here the few who gave further details were important.  A 
number said that they encountered problems and lack of clarity with the guidelines 
and how to implement them. Others said that they needed legal advice. Still others 
Page | 30
said – and this is particularly noteworthy for demonstrating a high level of sensitivity 
– that women students found it hard to raise their voices to lodge a complaint, and 
needed to overcome their ‘timidity’. Very few provided details about the nature of 
the complaints. Among those who did so, these were evenly divided between cases 
involving outsiders on campus, student complaints against teachers, and student 
complaints against other students. Only a few gave details about the kind of penalties 
awarded, with expulsion from the institution mentioned very rarely. The next question 
pertained to any suggestions they might have to improve the situation in relation 
to cases of sexual harassment. About 3.5 per cent suggested self-defence classes 
for women students, 5.3 per cent women/gender studies classes, and 19.5 per cent 
awareness programmes. Among other suggestions (totally 21.5%) the predominant 
ones were security and surveillance related, including raising boundary walls, more 
security, installing CCTV cameras and such like. Still others called for proper dress 
codes for women, self-monitoring among students. Even more problematic was the 
suggestion from a few that parents or guardians needed to be brought into the picture 
and should be the first to be informed about any problem on campus. 
The following section of questions pertained to issues relating to gender equality 
and sensitization measures on campus. To begin with institutions were asked what 
measures were in place for raising awareness against harassment or violence in their 
institutions. About half the respondents provided some answer here, and some gave 
multiple options which were broadly grouped. The most frequent was to say that they 
organized awareness programmes (43%). From what could be seen, these were for 
students only and did not include all the employees of the institution. Related to 
this was inviting people to give lectures, or conduct workshops (36.8%). A few gave 
further details here including names of people called, often from law or the police, 
and sometimes from the field of women’s studies or women’s organization or a well-
known public figure. There was clear evidence here of the presence of a women’s 
development cell or women’s studies centre which were responsible for such events. 
In this section it was also evident as to who had answered the questionnaire – the 
principal, registrar, or someone from the sexual harassment committee or WDC. Other 
answers included personal discussions with students (18.1%) and conducting essay or 
poster competitions among students (13.4%). The next question asked what measures 
Page | 31
existed to ensure that women students have equal access to campus facilities such as 
the library, laboratories or any campus event at all times. This question did not elicit 
any interesting responses – women’s colleges said that it did not apply to them, and 
co-educational institutions declared that they were equal access institutions overall. 
A few mentioned that they had separate facilities such as common room for girls, or 
separate stair cases even. Others mentioned efforts such as giving women ‘priority’ 
space in the library or promoting sports events for women. It was the following 
more focused question on whether differential timings for male and female hostel 
residents to return to their respective hostels (including night outs) that provided 
some indication of differential policies and rules in place that are quite widespread. 
Once again women’s colleges (and of course those institutions that did not offer 
accommodation to women students) said the question did not apply to them. Among 
the rest (about 800 institutions) 349 (or 44%) admitted that they had differential 
timings, often amounting to at least one hour or more in the evenings. Further details 
included having to give notice well in advance to a warden or proctor for staying out. 
A few said that they applied strict timings to both male and female students equally. 
The concluding question in this section was to ask an open ended question about 
what suggestions they might have for improving gender equality on campus. Almost 
half (46.8%) offered suggestions. These ranged from the mundane to the interesting. 
Some even said that more mixing between the sexes ought to be encouraged, that 
women should be empowered to speak up about issues that concern them. Others 
said that reservations for women students were necessary in certain disciplines such 
as professional courses (eg. law colleges) and that fee concessions should be provided 
to encourage women students. There were also repetitions from previous questions 
so that self-defence courses, classes on gender related issues and more awareness 
programmes were also mooted. 
The final section of the questionnaire concerned gender related courses offered 
on campus and the presence of a women’s development cell. On the matter of there 
being any course within the broader curriculum of the college or university that had 
a component relating to women or gender, 29.9 per cent replied in the affirmative. 
However the answered varied hugely and at times begged the question. At one 
end of the spectrum there were some colleges and a number of universities where 
Page | 32
there were courses in women’s studies (often optional in nature) or special papers 
in particular disciplines such as sociology, political science, home science, education 
with topics such as women and society, or women and development. Then there were 
those, especially home science and teacher education institutions that saw their own 
courses themselves (a primary school level teachers course or a course in nutrition or 
child development for instance) as being the same thing as a women’s/gender studies 
course. And finally there were those who offered dress designing and beauty courses 
as an answer to the question. In other words there was considerable confusion here 
as to what exactly is a gender/women’s studies course, both in terms of content and 
in terms of purpose.  It would appear that many colleges think that a course taken 
primarily by women with the potential to provide some kind of employment or 
vocational potential (teachers, nutritionists, designers, beauty course certification) 
takes care of the need to offer a course on women/gender related issues and topics. 
On the question as to whether they had a women’s studies centre or women’s 
development cell in their institutions 38.1 per cent replied that they did. This is a 
surprisingly large number. Unfortunately not many gave any further information to 
give some idea of the scope and activities of such cells. Among those that did, some 
provided details about their programmes (such as conducting workshops, inviting 
speakers and so on) and some provided attachments of their annual reports. 
Finally institutions were asked if they had any other comments or suggestions for 
the consideration of the UGC. This question did not elicit much response with 29.9 
per cent giving some kind of answer. The most common (21.4%) was to request for 
financial assistance for a range of concerns from raising their walls, to providing CCTV 
to setting up programmes. 13.3 per cent said that women’s studies courses should be 
made compulsory, 15.7 per cent said that self-defence classes (such as Karate) should 
be provided and 8.2 per cent asked for periodic visits by the local police. 
This then, is the kind of information that could be obtained from the questionnaires 
sent out. We think that the best way to use this limited information is in conjuncture 
with the findings obtained through the face to face interactions in the Open Forums 
that were conducted. 
Page | 33
III. OPEN FORUMS 
3.1	
Context and Background 
It was strongly felt by all members of the UGC Task Force that no assessment of the 
situation was possible without visits to campuses and interactions with members. 
Ideally the Task Force hoped to visit universities in all the major regions of India, 
especially the Northeast. Time constraints prevented this from being possible. 
However the experience was so positive that one of the recommendations of this 
Task Force is that further Open forums be organised and that these become regular 
annual events in institutions. In addition to the Open Forums conducted by the Task 
Force, a women’s studies centre and a women’s organisation in Kolkata inspired by 
the news of such Open Forums conducted their own Open Forum for universities and 
colleges in West Bengal, which was addressed by the UGC Director of the Eastern 
Region, and shared their report of the event with the Task Force. (See Appendix 8 for 
their recommendations.) 
Open Forums were organized with students, teachers and staff of universities. 
Interactions were held with senior university and college Administrators including 
VCs and Principals on their experiences of existing mechanisms (where available) and 
any new steps initiated by them for safety, especially of women on campuses. The 
nature of problems encountered on campuses regarding gender based discrimination 
and violence were foregrounded at the Forums. The Forums were organized largely 
with the help of existing Women’s Development Centres and Centres for Women’s 
studies and also drew on the expertise of members of CSOs working in the area. 
It was unanimously agreed that these would help ascertain on the ground whether 
a “gender perspective” even enters the ‘acceptable’ discourse on campuses. Also 
unhindered, unmediated feedback of the experiences of teachers, students and staff 
on the nature and robustness of redress mechanisms were very helpful in formulating 
suggestions. The Open Forums were primarily an elicitive process for the Task Force 
Page | 34
to get relevant information and feedback from all sections of campus communities. 
It did not function as a Grievance Redress mechanism and its Terms of Reference 
(TORs) were communicated transparently, care being taken not to overstep its 
mandate or raise unrealistic expectations on what it was meant to deliver. A special 
attempt was made to interact with members of Gender Sensitization committees, 
Committees Against Sexual Harassment and Complaints Committees on campuses 
to ascertain the approach and methods adopted to deal with the challenges faced in 
fulfilling their stated objectives. 
The Forums worked extremely well, and the interactions were revealing of a large 
number of shared concerns across institutions that are otherwise dissimilar. Indeed, 
the Forums were something of an eye opener both to the hosts and to the members 
of the Task Force, given the extent and depth of issues that emerged around sexual 
harassment and regarding gender issues more broadly. 
It was strongly felt that the Open Forums provided a template on which to 
build UGCs future interventions of gender sensitization and safety of women on 
campuses, where mandatory site visits by the UGC could be an on-going activity 
with two or three experts evaluating the efficacy of these measures across all 
funded institutions in the country. The process could also foreground and publicize 
institutional frameworks in this regard, with possibly an added incentive such as a 
research grant or workshop funding to put these processes in place. 
The Open Forums were extremely well attended. Based on the turn out everywhere 
it is reasonable to assume that the views expressed were shared by a large number of 
members of the respective campuses. Over all, VCs, Registrars and Principals struck 
us as keen to firm up existing mechanisms relating to women’s safety and take up 
fresh initiatives. However, we did not feel that there was adequate appreciation of 
the long term initiatives required to set up a “woman-friendly” and gender equal 
campus. In other words, not merely ensuring a campus in which sexual harassment 
would be punished, but a campus sensitive to gender questions and committed to 
women’s equality. 
Page | 35
3.2	
Observations and Feedback from Open Forums 
The feedback from the Open Forums (OFs) falls broadly into four categories/rubrics/ 
concerns. They include: 
3.2.1 Concerns regarding measures for Gender Sensitization including the content 
and conduct of refresher courses, teaching modules and workshops to address issues 
of gender based violence and cultures of impunity and silence that are prevalent on 
campuses, including the reinforcement of stereotypes. The need for academic and 
theoretical inputs, including learning modules on gender issues was emphasized. 
3.2.2 Shortcomings in the workings of institutional redress mechanisms such as 
Internal Complaints Committees Against Sexual Harassment and Gender Sensitization 
Committees set up to respond to such issues, and lack of transparency and information 
about their constitution, structure and mandate. 
3.2.3 Requirements of specific facilities on and near campuses to ensure the safety 
and security of students and women belonging to different professional constituencies 
on campus. Also, there is a need to upgrade infrastructural facilities on campuses, 
the lack of which impedes women’s access to equitable arrangements necessary for 
academic, intellectual and professional growth. 
3.2.4 Special requirements of women students and staff to ensure dignity, equality of 
access, bodily integrity and an enabling environment for the protection of their right 
to work and study. 
3.3	
The Main Issues that Emerged 
3.3.1 Gender Sensitization Issues 
3.3.1.1 Overall, gender sensitization emerged as the weakest aspect in the process 
of addressing issues on campus, while being arguably the most critical in terms of 
creating a conducive ethos on campus and an understanding around the meaning of 
gender equality and freedom, and problems of harassment. Many women testified to 
Page | 36
the constant and everyday aspects of harassment and teasing, which they felt simply 
had to be endured. Students from regions such as the North East also reported the 
compounded experience of racial and sexual stereotyping. In some cases, the problem 
of harassment was quite severe, especially where students were being followed or 
even being propositioned by outsiders while going for a walk. 
3.3.1.2 There was a widespread tendency to blame the victim who reports sexual 
harassment/ assault implying that she/he had somehow “asked for it”. 
Several speakers stressed that locking the women up was not the answer; the 
custodial responsibility was to make university spaces safe enough for them to live 
with a sense of freedom and equality. There were protests about early hostel hours 
where women students had to be “in” by 6 pm; hostel terraces were locked at 6.30 
or not open at all; transport between the main campus and undergraduate hostels 
stopped at 7pm, and in some universities did not exist at all. 
3.3.1.3 Students pointed out that the terms “women” and “gender”, if used without 
due care, led to homogenisation and could be problematic. It was important to take 
note of the backgrounds of ‘women,’ their caste/regional experiences, including 
harassment with regard to normative notions of women.  Obscene comments, 
imposition of dress codes, assumptions about sexual availability, could be exacerbated 
by religious, regional, or caste power/difference. Students who chose to wear the hijab 
were subject to odd comments. Situations of harassment could be compounded and 
lead to acute vulnerability for dalit or minority women. Among the most vulnerable 
and invisible women are women with disabilities, since they require constant 
assistance and are frequently placed in situations of dependency. A number of cases 
where visually impaired women had been subjected to abuse by others were also 
brought to the attention of the Task Force members. The Task Force also heard about 
cases of severe victimisation and harassment among sexual minorities, regardless of 
gender. In one particularly tragic case, a male student who was taken to the police 
station on charges of homosexual behaviour towards another student committed 
suicide. 
3.3.1.4 The issue of students from rural and more ‘traditional’ backgrounds into larger 
city universities and colleges may need special attention from the CASH committees 
Page | 37
in the sense that it is not just experiences of discrimination but also different ideas 
about ‘appropriate’ behaviour for men and women creates confusion and alienation 
among students which needs to be explicitly addressed. Gender sensitive education 
for imparting unfamiliar notions of rights and equality are necessary. 
3.3.1.5 Students and faculty in minority institutions were particularly vocal about 
the need not to compromise on issues pertaining to gender equality on campuses. 
While respect for diversity is necessary, every encouragement must be provided to 
minority students to express their experiences of harassment or discrimination in an 
atmosphere of safety and confidentiality. The procedures and guidelines to handle 
complaints must be seen to be adhered to.  
3.3.1.6 There is clearly a need for gender sensitization of the whole community, 
especially security staff and administrators. Many said that this training should be 
mandatory. 
3.3.1.7 Faculty and students spoke of the need to work towards a positive interpersonal 
climate on campuses. It was not enough to focus on harassment or make penal 
provisions. The university was a living space as well as a work space. It was a place 
where it should be possible to think further about equality, to take risks, to experiment, 
to learn about how not just to tolerate but to live well with others who are different—
socially, economically, in terms of religion, race, sexual orientation or ability. Students 
felt that the university should help women transition from the protected atmosphere 
of the home, into a real life situation where she had to be independent. They felt 
the university did not take the women students seriously enough. Notices for lectures 
rarely reached women’s hostels; they were not encouraged to go on educational 
trips or speak up at lectures or in class. Many stressed excessive moral policing and 
insistence on dress codes was echoed by several students. 
3.3.2 Counselling. There was considerable difference of opinion about counselling. 
Some faculty and students felt that counselling tends to individualize and sometimes 
medicalize what are social issues, and that counsellors who were sensitive to 
complexities such as those involving caste, minority experience or sexuality were 
very rare. 
Page | 38
Others acknowledged this, but pointed to the critiques and recommendations 
that had emerged out of feminism and gay movements, and argued that there was an 
urgent need for the services of trained/retrained counsellors. Contexts where young 
people from different backgrounds were living together may require some rethinking 
of standard concepts and protocols of counselling. Though many of these issues are 
social, individuals experience them personally and institutional spaces in which they 
can open up are essential. The purpose of counselling is to help the person to deal 
with the harassment and trauma. Further, an adequate number of counsellors were 
necessary; it was not enough to have a counsellor visit for a few hours once a week. 
Hours must be well publicised. Moreover, the idea that a teacher or even senior woman 
administrator in a college could double up as a counsellor was questioned and the 
ethics of such an arrangement in terms of confidentiality, trust and conflict of interest 
cannot be overemphasized.  Overall the members got the idea that counselling is 
necessary but its assumptions and protocols require thoughtful and engaged retooling 
if they are to be sensitive to the complexities of campus life today. 
3.3.2.1 .Special emotional and academic support was required both at the personal 
and institutional level for students from marginalized groups. Students pointed out 
that the overwhelming majority of them were from rural SC, ST and OBC backgrounds. 
The university “does not attend to any of them”; a student leader observed. Another 
one asked, “How do we make the university work for these students?” Students with 
disabilities were especially vulnerable and their requirements for assistance open to 
abuse. In elite families, it was pointed out, there may be a culture of speaking out, 
but not so with those who come from “depressed backgrounds” that were often 
conservative about women. Women students and non-teaching staff from such 
backgrounds remain silent about harassment though there is a lot of it at every level. 
Several students pointed to the gap between students and teachers which are often 
exacerbated by class, caste, or rural/urban differences.  
The university does not do enough to change problematic ideas about gender 
and rights. “Gender equality is not part of the syllabus, nor is it openly discussed at 
forums like this which are attended by both teachers and students; women students 
feel inferior and do not speak up in class or elsewhere.” Such is the silence that in 
one case that was brought before us, a male teacher who had struck up relations on 
Page | 39
promise of marriage with 13 students had not been charged or punished. Only after 
several years as they began to speak up, had the full extent of the problem emerged. 
More student friendly forums are needed to enable students, especially those 
whose socialisation or backgrounds make it hard to speak up, to be able share their 
concerns and experiences. 
3.3.3 Women teachers and non-teaching staff complained that glass ceilings operated 
at every level and they had to fight for privileges or promotions; they also complained 
about lack of encouragement or recognition for research, patenting, innovation. A 
dalit women finance officer reported that her upper caste colleagues openly refused 
to “work under her”. A woman librarian complained about the men who were her 
juniors deliberately using “objectionable” language in her presence. Instances were 
reported of women teachers being commonly insulted by male students. 
3.3.4 CASH Committees called for a compulsory 2 module course on gender, 
specifically designed with the experiences and contexts of specific HEIs in mind. 
Women students asked for more discussions and libraries of books that dealt with 
gender equality in the hostels. 
3.3.5 There was also a call for a culture of open discussion; of more events like the 
Open Forums. Students need more such forums to express themselves and to be taken 
seriously. 
3.3.5.1 One student suggested that the TV channels (not just Doordarshan, she 
stressed) should have spots that educate men about what can be regarded as 
harassment and show women what they can legitimately complain about. “We take 
too many things as inevitable, however disturbing they are for us,” she said. 
3.3.5.2 Another possible initiative is a festival week at the beginning of each academic 
year where such issues are presented and discussed in different forums and through 
different media—talks, discussions, films, plays; in short a week of cultural events. 
This would also help the juniors meet seniors and get a feel for campus activities. 
3.3.5.3 Some teachers suggested self-defence classes as important to build self 
confidence in young women. 
3.3.6 Sexual Harassment Committees and their Functioning 
Page | 40
a)	
Many colleges and universities had Sexual Harassment Complaints Committees 
(CASH) in place. Some had grievance cells for complaints, but no specific sexual 
harassment complaints committee. 
b)	
Information about CASH committees and procedures for filing cases was not 
common knowledge. Most students, teachers and non-teaching staff did not 
know of the existence of such a committee.  
c)	
Suggestions made were: information including procedures to be followed for 
making complaints to be placed in university handbooks and websites. There 
should be CASH complaint boxes in different locations and in the women’s 
hostels; elections should help for CASH representatives; there should be CASH 
newsletters; student CASH representatives for each batch/year would make the 
committee more accessible.  
d)	
Too often cases dragged on without resolution, increasing the stress for 
the victim. Quick investigations that are perceived as unbiased and small 
punishments that are perceived as corrective rather than punitive were likely to 
be most effective. 
e)	
Complaints committees lack clarity about their constitution, status, 
functioning and powers; e.g. it was not clear whether it was mandatory that 
their recommendations be complied with, and if so within what period. More 
guidelines were required. 
f)	
In some cases, there was poor coordination between terms of successive 
committees, files and papers were not handed over, cases left unresolved.  
g)	
CASH committees often had no funding, no physical location that served as 
an office, no secretarial or office assistance. In these conditions it was difficult 
to maintain necessary records. Lack of common understanding between the 
committee and the university administration about their function and status 
was another issue. 
h)	
Students complained that nominated CASH committees were often perceived 
as protecting the faculty. They felt that no serious action will or can be taken 
against teachers. 
Page | 41
i)	
Students also reported pressure on them to withdraw cases not just from 
faculty, but also from parents and peer groups. Fear of identification and future 
harassment prevents many from coming forward. Students reported that a 
senior administrator had said to a student “you should have come to me; what 
was the need to go to the Complaints Committee?” 
j)	
Redressal. Senior faculty stressed the need for sensitivity to the contexts in 
which harassment was occurring and the unprecedented heterogeneity of 
campuses now. The committee needs to be mature in its handling of issues. 
The focus should be on relief to the victim and resolution of the issue. 
Students should be helped to move out of what had become an uncomfortable 
situation for them. Punitive recommendations are necessary at times, especially 
if the offender was in a position of institutional power.  In cases involving 
students, depending on the nature of the complaint, a written apology and 
commitment to change could work. In hostel meetings, women students also 
generally agreed that what they wanted was for the behaviour to stop. They 
were not interested in “spoiling the boy’s career”.  In fact the danger that 
this might happen was sometimes a hindrance to their making or pursuing 
complaints. It is necessary to point out that the sexual harassment redressal 
mechanism is itself an alternative system to a court of law and is not primarily 
punitive in its orientation. Moreover, even punishments are graded across the 
spectrum from an apology to more severe penalties, depending on the nature 
of a particular case. 
k)	
Members of the faculty stressed the need for official and formal counselling, 
not only for those being harassed but also for those doing the harassing, some 
of whom were also mentally distressed. Several teachers talked about the need 
for counselling of those accused of harassment. 
l)	
Overall, there was a sense that careful attention needs to go into the culture 
of adjudication that is developed in CASH processes and the strategies that 
these committees develop; that there should be more sharing of these processes 
and reflection on them, between universities; CASH committees should be 
encouraged to put out newsletters. 
Page | 42
3.3.7 Issues pertaining to Infrastructural and Health Facilities on Campuses 
a)	
Better lighting on campus. Women students felt insecure returning to their 
hostels from sports, extra-curricular activities, library, laboratory, coaching 
classes, visits to the medical centre, talks and lectures. They complained that even 
where street lighting was in place, there was no consistent maintenance. Fused 
bulbs were not systematically replaced and long stretches could remain dark for 
weeks. Students talked of “road romeos” who threw stones at the lights. This 
could easily be dealt with, they pointed out, by protecting street lighting with 
metal mesh. Students asked that the road area around the campus, especially 
near the gates be well lit. 
b)	
Large campuses require reliable transport between women’s hostels and 
classrooms, laboratories, library, sports and other recreational facilities. On 
large campuses without regular and reliable transport women were particularly 
disadvantaged. Women students complained bitterly about lack of university or 
public transport. 
Crowded buses are an excuse for sexual harassment of students who use them 
and this is often a daily experience for commuting students. 
The problem of lack of public transport is exacerbated where colleges are located 
in poorly served sections of a city or in rural areas. The Task Force heard the tragic case 
of a women’s college in a semi-rural area where students from nearby villages came to 
class using tractors. On one occasion the tractor capsized, leading to the death of some 
of the women students. Day scholars who have to depend on others for their transport 
are also subject to daily harassment from men as they make their way to and fro from 
college. Parents and college administration also attempt to ‘control’ the situation by 
maintaining strict timings such that students are expected to go straight home as soon 
as classes are over in the afternoon. There is no question that such students could 
attend programmes in the evenings. This leads to strict segregation among men and 
women students in many colleges in terms of their ability to participate in the full life 
of the college or university.  Women students reported even policing and denying 
themselves in order to keep parents and the administration ‘happy’, otherwise their 
very chance of pursuing an education would be in jeopardy. 
Page | 43
a)	
Dependency. Students stressed that without a shopping centre, pharmacy or 
photocopy facility on campus, and no buses, they had to turn to their male 
classmates for all their “small, small needs.” The fact that there were no buses 
into campus increased their dependency on the male students (which in turn 
led to expectations, maybe involvement and, even exploitation). Several women 
students spoke about the dependency that ensued, and how this left them 
vulnerable sexually and personally. “The university should be a place where we 
get rid of the fears we come with; a place where we can practice being equal. We 
should not be put into situations that continue our dependency. We need training 
by the women’s cell to fend for ourselves and be independent.” A student from 
one campus reiterated. 
b)	
Crowding. Residential facilities for women students remained limited 
although numbers in relation to male students had increased; the pressure 
led to tensions, between students, inadequate and over used toilet and bath 
facilities unsanitary conditions, shortage of drinking water, breakfast and lunch 
queues that were so long that students had to miss their meal if they were to 
be in time for classes. In one campus, a mess catered to over 1,000 students. 
Even research scholars did not get single rooms. Crowding was a problem 
in most campuses where residential facilities for women were far less than 
those available for men. The UGC must respond proactively to the widespread 
shortage of women’s hostels.  
c)	
Toilet Facilities. In all the universities these were in poor condition, too few 
and therefore over-used and vulnerable to clogging (for which the women were 
blamed) in disrepair, dirty, often without disposal bins. Bathroom doors could 
not be shut properly. There were reports of toilet and bath queues, inadequate 
water supply, no disposal facilities for sanitary towels; recurrent urinary tract 
infections. Sensitized students not only complained about these problems but 
also emphasized that due to processes of contractualisation of workers and 
reducing their numbers, it was not possible for existing workers entrusted with 
the task to maintain the toilets and bathrooms. Also they were not provided 
with adequate or functional cleaning tools and materials. 
Page | 44
d)	
Health Facilities. 
(i)	
Here too students reported shortfalls: lack of a full time gynaecologist, lack 
of trust, inadequate availability of medicines, and no medical help at night. 
There were either no ambulances or they were not operable. 
(ii)	 Nutrition Women students felt that their diets lacked adequate calcium 
and iron, and highlighted that the B12 deficiencies that were being reported 
were accurate. In several hostels it was shocking to hear that both the 
quantity and nutritional content of food provided was inadequate. 
(iii)	 Exercise and recreation. Largely there were no gyms for women students; 
but everywhere women students had to be very persistent to participate 
in sports. Those who made it into teams were welcomed, but there was 
no facility for those who just wanted to play especially in co-ed campuses. 
There was a serious dearth of common recreation, discussion or study 
spaces in the hostels, and few facilities for extra-curricular activities. 
Students were confined to their rooms in the evenings.  In some cases even 
the door to the terrace was locked at 6.30. 
(iv)	 Sexual health. Education about sexuality, contraception, STD etc., was far 
from adequate. Urinary tract infections and menstrual irregularity were 
common complaints and inadequately addressed. 
(v)	
Attitude of medical personnel. Students reported being asked extremely 
insensitive questions even when they went with small medical complaints. 
Minimum courtesies were sometimes not observed. In one case, when 
a woman student entered for a consultation, the doctor’s friends would 
remain in the room. 
(vi)	 Health of contract workers. Hostel assistants, cleaning staff and security 
personnel throughout many universities are now contract workers. In 
each university about one third of them are women. They have no toilet 
or resting/lunch places, no leave, no ESI cards, and no maternity leave; 
pregnant women continue to work on wet, slippery floors, sick women 
continue to work in the kitchen. The understanding of “equality” was such 
Page | 45
that women were required to do all the heavy lifting and pushing jobs as 
well. They were told that if they wanted the job, they should be “equal”! 
e)	
Security and security personnel. The dissatisfaction with security personnel 
(and police) was serious and widespread. This needs to be seriously noted and 
systematically addressed.  
Women at all levels, and especially students, complained about the attitude 
of security staff. They created an atmosphere in which it was difficult to access 
them, let alone make a complaint. Security personnel took it on themselves to act 
as moral police. They blamed the women and interrogated the complainant instead 
of providing security. Women described the responses of security personnel as 
“insulting”, “unacceptable”, “gender insensitive”, and “threatening”. Senior security 
staffs have been reported as making comments like: “Security is not for students it is 
for property” and “if they can go out in the bushes, there is no need to feel insecure”. 
Students from the North-East were particularly vulnerable; Dalit and OBC students 
complained about being targeted. 
There was a demand, not only for gender education/ sensitization for security 
staff, but broader diversity training, and punishment for those who misbehaved. 
Students reported harassment also from the police. On one campus women students 
returning at night were summarily taken away to the police station and subjected 
to comments about their dress and behaviour until dawn. Their cell phones were 
confiscated; they were not allowed to call their teachers or friends or teachers. Women 
students pointed out that the very police who were so focused on the women students 
looked past the drug peddling that was taking place under a flyover a hundred meters 
down the road. 
On one campus, a male student who had been taken to the police station, returned 
and committed suicide. Students on protest at the time of these hearings said he had 
been unable to bear the humiliation and that a quarrel between students should not 
have been taken to the police. This case was complicated by the fact that the complaint 
of sexual harassment against him was made by another male student. 
Faculty and students on several campuses pointed out that universities seemed 
keener to install security cameras than work on creating an atmosphere that is not 
Page | 46
hostile to women or mandating responsible and gender sensitive behaviour from key 
personnel. 
As this feedback clearly demonstrates the experience of conducting face to 
face Open forums was immensely fruitful and has provided a basis for some of the 
recommendations of this Report. 
Page | 47
IV. GENDER SENSITISATION 
4.1. Rationale and Scope 
It should be obvious that the term ‘Gender Sensitization’ is extremely broad in scope 
and envelops and gives direction to problems related to combating Sexual Harassment 
more specifically. Gender Sensitization implies accepting the basic rights associated 
with Gender equality among all persons, and non-discrimination towards those 
whose gender identity places them in a situation of disadvantage or vulnerability. In 
the context of Higher Education Institutions such as universities and colleges, which 
are places where people work, study and often live together over several years in 
the context of teaching and learning, the nature and scope of gender sensitization 
is particularly important. As has become evident from the previous sections of this 
report, particularly the feedback from the questionnaires and the Open Forums, 
assumptions about gender are quite contradictory and confused. Further, in terms of 
the implementation of sexual harassment policies this is the weakest aspect evident 
in the functioning of committees and cells set up in HEIs to deal with such matters. 
This situation should be a wakeup call for the UGC. Many might well harbour the 
mistaken belief that as educational institutions our HEIs are intrinsically better off in 
creating and imparting an ethos of equality than the average workplace, but this is not 
the case. Moreover, as has already been mentioned in the introduction, the complex 
hierarchies and inequalities that structure HEIs, the prevalence of misogyny, as well as 
the real heterogeneity among students makes for a particularly challenging situation 
that must be explicitly addressed. At the same time, it is our assessment that HEIs are 
also well placed to take on this challenge. 
There is considerable acknowledgement of the need to address students and 
make them more gender sensitive and inculcate notions of rights and respect towards 
everyone irrespective of gender, class, caste, region, language, religion, sexual 
orientation, ability and so on. However, it is necessary to emphasize that everyone 
Page | 48
working on campuses must be gender sensitized, including faculty and all sections of 
the administration and support staff. 
There are many ways in which this can be achieved and the feedback from the 
Open Forums in the previous section offers a number of them. These range from 
shorter term events and programmes, workshops and orientation exercises, to longer 
term processes such as courses for students. The former should be structured in 
ways to ensure that everyone participates and these can be differently structured 
depending on the group that is involved, whether first year undergraduate students, 
or, say, research scholars; whether more senior level administrators or other classes 
of employees; whether it be faculty from the sciences or the social sciences. On the 
other hand, whether courses on gender should be made compulsory across the entire 
student body is a matter that needs more discussion. Making a course compulsory 
would ensure that all students are exposed to a longer pedagogic engagement with 
issues of gender and related issues of inequality, but it could also lead to resistance 
and resentment and vitiate the very purpose for which it has been created. 
We offer below an outline for a possible course on gender sensitization which could 
be offered both at the under graduate and postgraduate level. In the next section we 
offer basic outlines of possible workshops that address gender issues, masculinity and 
questions that surround sexual harassment in the context of HEIs. The final section 
offers some courses on legal literacy relating to sexual harassment, gender violence 
and related forms of discrimination. 
4.2	
Suggested Course Module 
	
Gender Sensitization (2 Credit Course Module for Colleges and 
Universities) 
Objective: The aim of this course is to help analyse the context and factors that are 
shaping gender in India more generally, and among young people in higher education 
more specifically. In using the term ‘gender’ we are referring to the entire set of relations 
and structures that are involved in producing men and women in society, including 
norms of femininity and masculinity. This course is not narrowly about ‘women’ alone. 
Page | 49
Gender equality and the fundamental freedoms guaranteed to all citizens are core 
ideals that need to be highlighted as the basis for a genuinely free, just and open society. 
However, it is one thing to name these ideals and another to actualise them in every 
day interactions. The challenge is precisely that of connecting the idea of and desire for 
equality to a world that is often unequal and discriminatory in practice. 
Colleges and universities are complex institutions engaged in the education of 
future generations. Institutions of higher education today are more diverse than 
ever before, and, in terms of numbers, also have more women among their ranks 
than ever before. Members within these institutions are in a position to reflect on 
existing hierarchies and differences, oppose the growing prevalence of violence, 
especially sexual violence and harassment, and impart ideals of rights, dignity and 
respect. Students also carry a range of notions about gender related issues, whether 
‘traditional’ or ‘modern’. Only through open discussion in classrooms can some of the 
problems of violence be directly addressed and not be taken for granted or suppressed. 
This course is an effort to help structure such discussion by providing frameworks 
of analysis, and a clear notion of rights and responsibilities. With the help of case 
studies and examples from popular culture as well as from everyday life, it also seeks 
to provide concrete illustrations of how such violence is reproduced or resisted in 
society through every day practices and relationships, and what is needed in order to 
gain a critical perspective on them. 
SECTION I:  Citizenship 
This section introduces students to the idea of citizenship and its implications. It will 
draw on the Indian Constitution and the recently proposed Bill of Rights by the Justice 
Verma Committee appointed by the Government of India, to flesh out what kinds of 
rights and freedoms everyone is or should be entitled to. It will therefore provide a 
basis for non-discrimination, whether because of gender or any other dimension of 
a person’s identity or social background, be it class, caste, region, religion, sexuality, 
ability, and so on. 
A useful text that can help concretise how those responsible for creating the Indian 
Constitution envisioned the equality of men and women in the future nation is B.R. 
Page | 50
Ambedkar’s writings at the time of defending women’s rights over the passing of the 
Hindu Code Bill.  (Reference in bibliography, Appendix 15). 
The Bill of Rights from the Justice Verma Commission has been included in the 
Appendix to this Report. It is crisp and short and can also be a basis for discussion. 
SECTION II: Power and Inequalities 
It is essential that students grasp some of the essential aspects of how power is 
exercised in a modern democratic society which enjoys formal equality. This is 
particularly difficult to bring out since hierarchies are frequently hidden from view 
or are naturalized (thus male aggression is wrongly naturalized). It is common to 
conceive of power as something that only comes from a distance – from governments 
for instance, or economically strong nations, or from those who control large resources. 
Power is exercised in all institutions and relationships including those that are close to 
us, such as families and even friendships. Thus, power relations are at work in a range 
of situations and contexts, be it where we work, where we live, where we study, or 
where we have fun, be it ‘public’ and ‘private’ places. It is necessary to spend time on 
the various ways in which power is exercised, and understand the way this exercise 
of power is gendered. This is also the context in which to discuss the different kinds 
of inequalities that exist in our society including gender relations. 
This section is therefore critical for the course as a whole. It will introduce students to 
gender inequalities and the many ways in which women experience oppression. There 
is now a very large literature available in several languages that can be drawn upon to 
discuss aspects of gender discrimination and patriarchal structures (see bibliography 
in Appendix 15). There are numerous sites and modes in which discrimination is 
reproduced, whether in public life (such as in political representation) or in families 
(as in property rights). 
Depending on the scope of the module, students can discuss the concept of 
patriarchy.  What is patriarchy? How do we understand different patriarchies? 
In the context of marriage and man-woman relationships why are men seen as 
having to be taller than a woman, be more qualified, to have a bigger salary? 
Page | 51
Why do women have to change their name at marriage? Why is there so much 
resistance to women inheriting parental property? 
The theme of labour and employment can also be a useful way to illustrate how 
even though the Constitution states that no one should be discriminated against in 
the sphere of work, the actual economy does not reflect this. With the help of Census 
or National Sample Survey data that is publicly available, students and teachers can 
see how small are the numbers of women who enter national statistics as workers 
compared to men, whether in agriculture, manufacturing or services. They can also see 
how many women are ‘housewives’, who both in national accounting and in popular 
understanding are thought of as contributing nothing productive to society no matter 
how hard they may be working.  Students can discuss to what extent even the work 
that women are paid for in employment is so often perceived as extensions of the 
(unpaid) ‘love’ and ‘care’ they do in their homes, such as school teaching, nursing, 
the hospitality industries and, of course, paid domestic work, all of which have a 
correspondingly low status in society. 
Given that ‘gender’ always refers to a relationship – between men and women, 
men and men, and between these and other gender categories – this section will pay 
particular attention to an often ignored aspect of gender studies, viz., the making of 
masculine cultures. This will highlight the different ways in which boys are taught 
to be ‘men’ and how this impacts upon gendered violence in particular and gender 
hierarchies in general. The discussion will borrow from a wide variety of sources 
– media images, popular culture, legal pronouncements, familial and religious 
discourses, etc. – to encourage students to think critically about their own identities. 
Since masculinity refers to everyday practices, it is important to engage young people 
on the topic of how daily interactions reflect deep-seated prejudices and the ways to 
counter these (see Appendix 9). 
It cannot be over emphasized that gender relations do not exist in a vacuum.  It 
is not enough to say that being men and women in society carry different values and 
privileges. These are never constituted in isolation, but are shaped by other relations 
of power caste, class or ethnicity. The literature on the subject of masculinities speaks 
of dominant or hegemonic masculinity, which is the overall norm to which all men 
Page | 52
are subjected but which very few men in society are actually able to attain. Women 
too are heterogeneous and can be more or less privileged. Forms of dependency and 
vulnerability among women therefore are extremely important and sensitive issues. 
Consider the difference between, say, an able bodied woman and a woman who is 
physically challenged, and their vulnerability to sexual harassment. 
While statistics are one way of introducing students to the reality of discrimination, 
another useful resource is popular culture – films and advertisements are excellent 
media since these are easily identified and known by all. Advertisements can be used 
to show how norms of masculinity are produced and can be analysed to reveal the 
working of power. Car advertisements for instance, assume that the buyer is male, 
and even treat the car as masculine. The Raymonds Suitings ad ‘the Complete Man’ 
offers a clever non-violent depiction of masculinity, where the man appears gentle, 
yet in complete control, and is ‘completed’ by his Raymond suit. Then again, there 
are advertisements that present changing ideals about masculinity (like the muscular 
John Abraham advertising a skin lightening cream). It will be useful to encourage 
students to go beyond simple gender dichotomies and to look at the way in the world 
of consumption that young people are so pressured by, it is not only women who are 
‘objectified’. A discussion of these images can also help students recognise the ways in 
which both men and women are shaped and pressured under oppressive norms that 
make a vast majority experience themselves as ‘failures’. 
Students must be encouraged to speak about their experiences and situations. 
In order to facilitate this, language is central, so that even if the official language  of 
instruction may be English, students should be encouraged to speak in the language in 
which they are comfortable. Language is also critical for understanding the everyday 
playing out of gender, given common and colloquial expressions and terms for women 
and men. Students can explore the misogyny, casteism and anti-worker perspectives 
in language use. 
The subject of mobility can be brought up to reveal how power differences 
structure gender relations in everyday spaces. Gender discrimination is particularly 
visible among students in terms of freedom of movement. Public places are the ones 
where women experience considerable constraint and policing, so much so that the 
Page | 53
pervasive belief is that the only way to keep women safe is within closed or private 
spaces – in a hostel, at home. Women students should be encouraged to share their 
experiences of moving through and occupying public and private spaces.  
The nature of gender and its inherent complexity and diversity can be further 
addressed in this module by taking the concrete example of the college or university 
itself. Students should be encouraged to explore where the men and women are in the 
structure of the college/university – such as in different disciplines, in administration, 
and so on. In most colleges and universities in India today, the student body is 
remarkably diverse, with both rural and urban, upper caste and ‘reserved’ category 
students based on caste, tribe and disability. In most co-educational colleges the 
number of women students can also be quite high. At the same time, the faculty or 
administration would probably have a different gender break up. By exploring the 
composition of all those who live, teach and work in a college or university, abstract 
notions of the intersections of class, caste and region with gender can come alive, 
from those who head the institution, to its many employees including the security 
guards (who are supposed to keep the campus safe) and those workers who keep 
the institution clean. It will also be interesting to look at how leadership among 
students may be gendered in a co-educational context.  Thus, students may look at the 
composition of the students union over several years and take this as a starting point 
of a discussion on gendered roles in everyday life among students. But this is also 
tricky terrain, since we tend to approach gender and social differences stereotypically. 
Boys are stereotyped as ‘aggressive’, girls as ‘modest’, rural students as ‘timid’ and 
so on. It needs to be stressed that there is nothing natural about these. Moreover, the 
nature of the authority wielded by administrators and teachers must not be lost sight 
of. Colleges and universities are places where knowledge is imparted and learning 
takes place through specific relationships of power that are given a special sanction 
and justification. 
SECTION III:  Violence 
The previous section should have laid the ground for this section. In this section the 
important issue is to bring out the relationship between power and violence, especially 
Page | 54
forms of violence that are sexual. The important point to grasp is that unlike in the past, 
contemporary democratic societies do not openly sanction the exercise of violence, 
which has been reserved for the state. (Thus in history we read about conquering 
armies who would kill the men from the defeated people and rape or capture the 
women. The rules of contemporary warfare do not permit this. It is another matter 
that such rules are frequently broken). Corporal punishment by teachers (again a 
common occurrence till recently) is no longer allowed. Acts of violence in the home by 
husbands against their wives, or by adults against children are against the law. Any 
form of violence therefore is against one’s rights as a citizen. It constitutes an abuse of 
power and also violates one’s rights as a person deserving of respect and dignity, and 
constitutes an abuse of power. 
One way to introduce the topic is to look at the languages we use and the hidden 
violence that they embody. All languages are deeply misogynist (and casteist) and 
a discussion around common words and terms (not merely eve-teasing) may help 
in alerting students to ways of speaking that are otherwise taken for granted. The 
discussion on space and mobility in the previous section can be taken further here 
so that links can be drawn between the exercise of power through the control of 
women’s mobility and the justification of violence in public spaces. Some men do take 
advantage of situations of anonymity such as a crowded bus or a poorly lit street to 
harass women.  Much of the daily harassment that especially young women suffer 
can be of a more generalized ‘anonymous’ nature – stares, catcalls and comments – 
so much so, that women have ‘schooled’ themselves to treat this as part of ‘normal’ 
life. It should also be noted that young women from less privileged backgrounds 
(first generation learners for instance), striving to improve their lives through access 
to higher education, become frequent targets of sexual harassment and even sexual 
assault by men from other social groups as a means of humiliation or exploitation. 
Depending on the route they have to traverse from their homes to college and back, 
it can be quite traumatizing. So students must be encouraged to share such incidents 
and colleges must be made accountable to address these issues. This is where the 
availability of safe, reliable and non-crowded public transport, the kind of lighting on 
and around campuses becomes crucial. 
Page | 55
At the same time, the abuse of authority or trust from those in power may be harder 
to recognize and protest against. Therefore, it is absolutely essential not to confine 
discussions of violence to public spaces alone. It is a well-known fact but difficult to 
digest that most acts of violence performed against women or girls are by perpetrators 
known to the victim, not by strangers. This means that most men take advantage of 
the existing relationships of authority or trust they are in when they carry out acts 
of sexual harassment or assault. These may be family relatives, neighbours, friends, 
or people in a more publicly structured relation of authority such as employers or 
teachers or seniors. This also means that there are no spaces that are intrinsically safe 
or free or guaranteed protection. Women can experience vulnerability in all kinds of 
spaces not just public ones, though often we are made to believe that all that should 
be feared are strangers or moving about alone.  
There is another dimension to sexual harassment and violence among young people, 
one which finds strong support unfortunately in popular films.  Relationships, friendships 
and romance appear to be full of contradictions. If we were to believe popular films (which 
we most definitely should not!) then the best way for a boy to win the affection or love 
of a girl is to harass her in public!  The other myth often represented in popular cinema 
is that when a woman says No to a man’s proposition, she actually means yes. These 
myths are widespread and certainly not confined to any particular region of the country 
in popular cinema. Students and teachers can fruitfully discuss films both old and new 
which depict practices of harassment but which are made palatable or even endearing 
as forms of romantic play or comedy. Issues range from what might seem ‘harmless’ 
behaviour, but which involve stalking, pulling at sarees or dupattas, humiliating the 
woman, all of which are acts of overt harassment and not ways to express desire. There 
are also themes of ‘obsessive’ love which popular culture is replete with, where a woman 
who says no is not acceptable, and where the ‘hero’ gains huge sympathy by making 
himself vulnerable to the point of putting his life at risk. On the other hand, there are 
equally strong notions that the ‘good’ man is one who protects women, especially those 
whose affections he wishes to gain. Such protectionism often reduces the woman to a 
person without agency, who is helpless and unable to think or act for herself. Students 
should therefore discuss forms of protectionism and distinguish between support 
that is enabling and those that are effectively infantilizing for women. 
Page | 56
SECTION IV: Understanding and Combating Sexual Harassment 
In this section, existing rules and guidelines on what counts as sexual harassment can 
be used and disseminated so that students are better informed about them.  
UGC guidelines and booklets can be the basis for discussion. The notices and 
announcements against sexual harassment that have been mandated by the UGC to 
be put up on college notice boards, websites and brochures should be part of the 
discussion. Events and poster making can be organized around this. 
Sexual harassment takes many forms. The most important principle is that 
it is against the consent of the person and is experienced by the person concerned 
as violence. Acts of sexual harassment can be by an employer or teacher who is in 
relationship of authority. Situations of the abuse of trust also happen among friends. 
Thus women also experience sexual aggression amounting to rape from a friend 
or intimate partner. Violence among intimate partners is also prevalent where one 
partner harasses the other in ways that make the other person feel victimised.  All of 
these constitute sexual harassment and should be opposed. 
Everyday quasi anonymous forms of harassment on the road, in public transport 
and in campuses need different attention depending on their nature. The discussion 
needs to highlight the different tasks and responsibilities in preventing and 
combating sexual harassment. The authorities have a responsibility in ensuring that 
all students have access to safe public transport, to well-lit streets and campuses, 
functional toilets and so on. Everyone, including men and women students need 
to be aware that there is nothing ‘harmless’ about so-called ‘eve teasing’. Such 
behaviours are unacceptable. Women and men should also be encouraged to oppose 
such behaviour, whether as perpetrators, victims or – quite often – as bystanders. 
Women are socialized into believing that if they are being harassed then somehow 
they are at fault. Attempts to ‘protect’ women from harassment can reinforce this 
belief by curtailing and constraining them, whether through enforcing dress codes, 
maintaining different timings, or by bringing in guardians whenever there is a 
problem. Combating sexual harassment can be best achieved by building women’s 
confidence (including conducting self-defence classes on campuses). Students should 
be enabled to protest against incidents as and when they happen. A sporadic incident 
Page | 57
can possibly be tackled right away, but all forms of abuse of power or sources of on-
going discomfort and fear based on unwanted sexual attention must be reported to 
the complaints committee. 
SECTION V:  Equality and Freedom 
The course can be concluded by revisiting the fundamental ideals of citizenship 
and rights with which the course began. While these are rights given to us as a 
democratically governed nation, frequently the right to freedom and equality 
has had to be realized concretely by movements and struggles in society. These 
include women’s movements, movements against violence, anti-caste movements, 
movements to promote communal harmony, movements over land and resources, 
and so on. History would attest that rights and freedoms are rarely simply granted 
but have to won over and struggled for by the people affected. This is very much 
the case when it comes to gender equality and freedom from violence. This section 
would look at examples of such struggles and protests (see bibliography in 
Appendix 15). 
4.3	
Workshop Series on Gender, Masculinities, Sexual Harassment, 
Laws and Rights 
An essential aspect of gender sensitization must take the form of conducting a range 
of short term orientation courses and workshops for ALL members of the university 
and college community, students, faculty and staff. We offer below a range of such 
possible workshops to provide an indication of their scope which extend beyond 
narrow notions of gender and sexual harassment issues. 
The course module described above may be used as an outline for a five day (one 
part per day) or a one day workshop on gender. In addition, a workshop on gender is 
given below. Reading material and/ or films and other visual material may be used 
as the starting point for discussion on the range of issues outlined. A list of suggested 
readings and visual aids is given in Appendix 15. 
Page | 58
4.3.1.1 Gender Workshops 
The course module described above may be used as an outline for a five day (one 
part per day) or a day’s workshop on gender. If appropriate students, faculty or non-
teaching staff may be asked to read one section per day and this can be starting point 
of a discussion on the range of issues outlined. 
Workshop	
1	:	 What is gender? 
Workshop	
2	:	 The pressure to perform gender in particular ways. Illustrate with 
examples from cinema, advertising, etc. 
Workshop	
3	:	 Many bodies, many sexualities. Recognising diversity in gender and 
sexuality. 
Workshop	
4	:	 How do gender relations intersect with other axes of inequality 
and discrimination such as caste, class, region, minority identity, 
disability and so on? 
Workshop	
5	:	 (For a workshop with students) Gender Equality in interpersonal 
relationships. 
Workshop	
6	:	 Power and Violence against women: combating myths and 
understanding  legal provisions. 
4.3.1.2 Making Men: Masculinities and Everyday Life 
Rationale: While it is extremely important to have recourse to legal remedies and to 
know one’s rights in the case of gender-based discrimination, violence and harassment, 
gender is, simultaneously, a complex social and cultural terrain. An understanding of 
the latter is a prerequisite towards comprehending ones rights and forming informed 
opinions towards issues of social and gender justice. In particular, this workshop aims 
to highlight the fact that masculinity should not be considered a ‘natural’ category 
and requires critical reflection. An understanding of the cultures of masculinity – and 
gender in general – also emphasizes the fact that issues of justice and equality are 
not aspects to be solved only through legal means. Rather, that they also require an 
understanding of the processes and beliefs that create the conditions of injustice and 
discrimination in the first place. An understanding of masculinity (or, masculinities) 
Page | 59
also allows us to reflect upon our attitudes towards those – including, say, homosexual 
men and transgenders – who may not approximate to the dominant gender ideals. 
1)	
What is masculinity? What are the different terms and practices invoked to 
characterize it? 
2)	
Are men born violent or do they learn to behave in certain ways? 
3)	
What is the role of families, education and ‘tradition’ in the making of masculine 
cultures? 
4) 	
How are masculinities represented in the media and popular culture? 
5) 	
How do masculine perspectives unfold within institutions such as bureaucracies 
and law courts? 	
	
	
	
6)	
What is the relationship between masculinity and ‘public’ and ‘private’ spaces? 
How are men and women characterized as belonging to specific spaces? 
7)	
Are norms of masculinity changing? 
8)	
For the workshop participatory exercises as developed by NGOs could be drawn 
on (see Appendix 9 for more information.) 
4.3.2 Understanding Sexual Harassment on Campus Workshops 
What constitutes sexual harassment and how to deal with it, is a source of major confusion 
for most people, whether students, faculty or administrators. Even members of sexual 
harassment committees, as the Task Force members repeatedly found, are not aware of 
processes and procedures, which will be more fully addressed in the next section of this 
report. Here we provide a workshop series dealing with sexual harassment. A workshop 
for members of sexual harassment committees would have to be more detailed. 
Workshop 1: Defining Sexual Harassment in the Workplace. 
1.	
Understanding Sexual Harassment 
 
Sexual harassment is about any unwelcome sexually determined behaviour 
(whether directly or by implication) such as physical contact and advances, 
demand or request for sexual favours, sexually coloured remarks, showing 
Page | 60
pornography, or any other unwelcome physical verbal or non-verbal conduct of 
a sexual nature. 
 Sexual harassment is a form of violence against women and a human rights 
violation. It is a violation of fundamental rights as laid down in the Indian 
Constitution. Such behaviour transgresses common dignity and gender 
equality and denies equal opportunity 
 Sexual harassment creates an intimidating, hostile, offensive and therefore 
stressful working environment. 
 The first principle of sexual harassment is that it is against the consent of 
the person concerned. 
 This may occur in public with open and even boastful sexist attitudes, 
comments and behaviour, or only in private, when the aggressor is alone 
with the victim. 
 What is wrong with the term ‘eve-teasing’: 
•	 The word ‘teasing’ trivializes the harassment and presents it as ‘just fun’. 
•	 It presents the image of ‘Eve’ the temptress and tends to lay the blame 
on the woman, deflecting the issue to what the woman was wearing, 
why she was out late and so on. 
 Discuss the definition of Sexual harassment in the Vishaka Guidelines, 
the Sexual Harassment in the Workplace Act and in different university 
policies (especially where variations exist). 
 Discuss types of sexual harassment, quid pro quo sexual harassment, and 
hostile working environment sexual harassment. 
	
Below are a few example of each: 
	
Quid Pro Quo Harassment 
•	 I am due for a promotion. The librarian has to write my confidential 
report. Yesterday he came over to me and said, ‘you must come out 
with me so that just the two of us can be together’.  
Page | 61
•	 My PhD supervisor says that if I spend more time with him alone in the 
evenings, he will allow me to submit my dissertation soon. 
•	 Some students from my village helped me when I first joined the 
university. They now want to spend time with me alone and visit me at 
odd times even though I have said that I do not like it. 
•	 Male students with motorbikes offer me lifts to move around in the 
campus and then expect something in return which makes me very 
uncomfortable.   
	
Hostile Working Environment 
•	 The male staff in my office crack sexual jokes about women and use 
abusive language. Some of them watch pornography in the office. I feel 
very uncomfortable. 
•	 I have been receiving obscene sms messages from someone who clearly 
knows my whereabouts. 
•	 Street lighting on the way back to the hostel from the library is poor. 
Some men hang around and try to grab at us when we walk back at 
night.  
•	 In the art class the teacher makes obscene and embarrassing comments 
on women students and their work. 
•	 My class mate is a friend. He has been following me around  wherever 
I go and is now saying that because I haven’t begun a relationship with 
him he is getting very depressed and will harm himself. I feel victimised 
and afraid. How can I stop this behaviour? 
Workshop 2: Dealing with an event of sexual harassment 
•	
Discuss your University’s policy. 
•	
According to the policy, who can make a complaint of sexual harassment? 
•	
What is the Jurisdiction laid out in the policy? Do spaces outside the 
Page | 62
university campus that the complainant and respondent visited for work 
fall within the jurisdiction of a University ICC? 
•	
What are the procedures followed once a complaint to the ICC is made? 
•	
Discuss the protections offered to the complainant and the respondents 
offered in the pendency of an inquiry into her complaint. 
What are the ranges of redressal mechanisms – both punitive and non-punitive 
-available according to your University policy on sexual harassment? 
Workshop 3: Guidelines for a Complainant 
•	
Stress that it is not the fault of the person harassed (Too often women are 
blamed for harassment they face). 
•	
Follow your instinct. If you are uncomfortable with someone’s behaviour 
or feeling threatened take note of this feeling. 
•	
Keep a careful record of the harassment faced. If this involves smses, emails 
etc then keep them. If they involve Facebook posts or the like on the internet, 
take photographs of these pages which you can show as evidence.  
•	
Talk to your friends and people you are comfortable with about the 
harassment. 
Where appropriate try to tell the person to stop the behaviour. 
Workshop 4: Redressal of Sexual Harassment and Disciplinary action 
•	
Why is the ICC an alternate redressal mechanism? What are the guiding 
principles of a civil procedure? 
•	 The most important is that the nature of evidence required to prove a 
case is very different from that required in a criminal case. 
•	
 What are the interim reliefs granted to the complainant under the law, and 
the rules of the institution? 
•	
Should different acts of sexual harassment invariably attract the same kinds 
Page | 63
of penalties? How is the impact of sexual harassment on the complainant 
to be assessed and redressed? 
Workshop 5 Interactions with other laws and rules 
•	
Protection against Domestic Violence Act
•	
Sections of the IPC
•	
Prevention of Atrocities Act
•	
Anti-Dowry Legislations
•	
Service Conditions of employees and existing disciplinary committees.
•	
Making a complaint under the IPC. 
Workshop 6: Procedures and Guidelines for the functioning of a com-
mittee (for members of sexual harassment committees) 
1. Procedures to be followed in recording a complaint. 
a.	
Use a standard format for the recording of complaints --if there has 
been a series of incidents, seek information about all previous incidents; 
collect evidence like messages, emails and any other relevant documents, 
including itemised call records. 
b. 	
Reduce oral complaints to writing using the standard format--ensure that 
the complaint is as far as possible in the words of the complainant. Ensure 
that all documents submitted by the complainant are authenticated on 
every page, countersigned by the member of the ICC who has recorded/
received the complaint. 
2. 	
Development of a standard procedure for the constitution of Inquiry Committee, 
designation of Inquiry Officer, and a clear definition of its role, responsibilities, 
and powers. 
a. 	
Duties of the Chief Inquiry Officer: supply of the complaint and other 
documents to the respondent; the issue of summons to witnesses; conduct 
Page | 64
of meetings of the Inquiry Committee, and the adoption of minutes; 
correspondence with the complainant, respondent, witnesses and 
officials. 
b. 	
Roles and responsibilities of other members of the Inquiry Committee, 
including the NGO representative. 
3.	
Granting interim relief to complainants: addressing requests for transfer, leave, 
medical care/leave, protections against victimisation. 
4.	
Implementation of guarantees of confidentiality and principles of natural justice, 
including serving restraint orders, and interim disciplinary action. 
5. 	
Procedures to be followed in formal enquiry: 
a. 	
Order and manner of inquiry: the necessity of adopting a mode of inquiry 
whereby the respondent has a full opportunity to understand the case 
being made out against him before he presents his defence. 
b. 	
Dealing with depositions: verbatim vs. sense-based reduction of oral 
depositions. Use of questions and answers. Administration of an oath 
of confidentiality, and signatures on attendance sheets. The necessity 
of the deposition being explained to the witness in a language s/he can 
understand, and the use of translation/interpretation. Also, the need 
for the authentication of depositions (preferably on the same day) by all 
witnesses, particularly the respondent. 
c. 	
Procedures for the cross-examination of the parties and their witnesses, 
modulated by the guiding principles of gender-sensitivity and non-
coercion. Supply of authenticated and anonymised depositions to both 
parties. 
d.	
How to summon and interview official witnesses and access official 
records. 
6.	
How to write an enquiry report: The need to address all the aspects of evidence, 
and depositions with regard to the complaint as well as procedural objections. 
7.	
Protocols for submitting an enquiry report. 
Page | 65
Workshop 7: Preventive sensitisation work. 
1.	
Objectives and goals for sensitisation work. 
2.	
Why the need for a sexual harassment policy and ICC? What relief will it 
provide? 
3.	
The need for participation by students, teachers, office staff and maintenance staff 
in the ICC to create a safe and dignified atmosphere in the college/university. 
4.	
Instruments for community outreach: Open fora on experiences of all students 
and women staff, surveys, newsletters, talks, conventions, etc. 
5.	
Role play, improvisations and  performance of plays followed by discussion. 
4.3.3 Know Your Rights and Know the Law: Legal Literacy Workshops 
Workshops can also be organised that look at issues of gender and sexual harassment 
in the context of legal rights and remedies offered by the courts. Basic knowledge 
about how to file a complaint, what to do when faced with illegal detention or arrest, 
what to do when one is battered or stalked, equal opportunity legislation, freedom of 
expression and its violation, are addressed in these workshops (see Appendix 13 for 
details). 
Page | 66
V. SEXUAL HARASSMENT IN UNIVERSITIES 
AND COLLEGES
The UGC’s commitment to the just redressal of sexual harassment in Universities can 
be seen from the fact that soon after the Vishaka judgement of August 1997, circulars 
were issued to all universities, advising them to establish a permanent cell to address 
and redress sexual harassment, to develop guidelines to combat such harassment, 
violence against women and ragging at the universities and colleges. It further 
advised the universities to proactively create a conducive atmosphere on university 
campuses, where the status of women is respected. In March 1999, a booklet related to 
the Supreme Court judgement was prepared by the MHRD and a letter was sent out by 
the then UGC Chairperson Prof Armaiti Desai to all Vice Chancellors and Principals 
(dated March 1999) to set up sexual harassment committees. 
In response to this circular in the decade that followed, some HEIs responded 
positively and instituted such Internal Complaints Committees (ICCs); yet, the 
observance of the UGC letter appears to have been more in letter than in spirit. The data 
of a survey conducted in late 2012 by Prof. Reicha Tanwar, Director, Women’s Studies 
Research Centre, Kurukshetra University of 200 institutions of Higher Education 
in the country on the status of committees set up to deal with complaints of sexual 
harassment reveals that while there is a proforma ‘formalistic’ compliance on setting 
up some mechanism, there is little clarity on the purpose/scope of their work. Most 
importantly, even though Vishaka guidelines made preventive work central to the 
work of standing committees, the responses to their survey revealed little commitment 
to initiatives for sensitization or gender awareness on the campuses surveyed. 
The Task Force’s impression echoes that of the 2012 survey. Based on the responses 
received to the questionnaires sent out as part of the Task Force’s assessment and the 
inputs received from the Open Forums as well as other submissions, it has found 
that while many colleges and universities have a ICC in place, some still have generic 
grievance cells for complaints, but no specific sexual harassment complaints committee. 
Most committees have not received a single complaint of sexual harassment, nor have 
they conducted sustained awareness campaigns on this human rights violation. 
Page | 67
Even in universities where complaints committees are in place, students, teachers 
and non-teaching staff do not know of its existence. Information about procedures 
for filing cases is not common knowledge. In general, ICCs and administrators lack 
clarity about their constitution, status, functioning and powers, and the procedures 
that must be followed in inquiry. ICCs often have no funding, no physical location 
that serves as an office, no secretarial or office assistance, making the maintenance 
of necessary records difficult. Commonly, ICC members have little understanding of 
gendered violence, experience of dealing with sexual harassment and violence against 
women. When compounded by the absence of legal awareness or training, the inquiry 
function of these committees tends to be compromised, with the result that far too 
often cases drag on without resolution. 
Moreover, even where ICCs have been functional, their track records did not 
inspire enough confidence in the University community. In the open forums and other 
interactions with members of the Task Force students complained that nominated 
ICC committees were often perceived as protecting the faculty, and expressed the 
fear that in the absence of student representation on these committees, no serious 
action would ever be taken against teachers. They also pointed to the weakness of 
ICCs in empowering them to combat the pressure on them to withdraw cases --not 
just from faculty, but also from parents and peer groups. Fear of identification and 
future harassment prevents many from coming forward. Also in these Open Forums, 
faculty stressed the need for ICCs to be mature in its handling of issues, and its 
focus should be on relief to the victim and resolution of the issue. 
The Task Force is therefore of the opinion that it needs to formulate a set of guiding 
principles that must govern the composition, functioning and redressal mechanisms of 
ICCs in Universities, as derived from its understanding of the relevance of the Vishaka 
judgement and the Sexual Harassment Act, 2013 to universities as workplaces. 
5.1	
Understanding the role of ICCs in University 
The implementation of the Vishaka guidelines and the 2013 Act in universities must 
be predicated upon a clear understanding of the nature and significance of sexual 
Page | 68
harassment redressal mechanisms in the context of an institutional space such as the 
University and other Institutes of Higher education. These are not merely ‘workplaces’ 
where faculty and non-teaching staff work but are primarily places where students 
come to learn and be trained for their professional careers, and to realise their full 
potential as individuals. It is therefore imperative that all students, particularly women 
students, are provided with a safe and dignified environment in which they are able 
to achieve these goals, because only then will they be able to realise the constitutional 
promise of equality. 
The University-level ICC, when conceived of as an implementation of the Vishaka 
guidelines, was a mechanism to both prevent any violation of a safe and dignified 
environment and to ensure that if such violations do take place they are effectively and 
speedily dealt with. It is for this reason that ICCs have been put in place to provide a 
civil redressal mechanism in contrast to a criminal --primarily punitive --process. The 
goal of the SH policy is to end the problem faced by the student/employee through 
an internal system of relief that is easy to access, and thereby provides an effective 
remedy to the aggrieved complainant as quickly as possible so that she can continue 
to study and develop without further impediments. 
This is very important to recognize for two reasons. One, in relation to how cases 
are resolved, in that redressal does not necessarily have to be punitive and instead 
may be educational, (depending on the nature of the case) and two, in relation to the 
nature of evidence sought. 
Prior to the Vishaka guidelines, sexual harassment was addressed as a law and 
order problem in universities and was only addressed as and when a case came up. 
Committee members were not seen as needing an understanding of gender or gendered 
violence. This had implications for how cases were dealt with and also meant that no 
preventive work was done. In contrast, the Vishaka guidelines made it necessary for all 
institutions to set up standing committees. These committees have to be representative 
of the different sections of the University community, and must be autonomous (i.e. 
independent of existing structures of power), accountable and accessible. 
The Vishaka guidelines also effected a change in the way that redressal and 
disciplinary actions were to be conceived. Whereas earlier sexual harassment was only 
Page | 69
treated as a matter of criminal law, where the metric of ‘beyond reasonable doubt’ 
as laid down by the Indian Evidence Act, would have to be applied, ICC enquiries 
are bound by the ‘preponderance of possibility’ standards set for domestic enquiries. 
More suited for the inter-personal and non-public nature of sexual harassment in the 
workplace, these standards enable ICCs to hear and evaluate complaints in a manner 
that is more sensitive to the impact of sexual harassment on the individual. At the 
same time, the foregrounding of this subjective component adds further responsibility 
on ICCs with regards to the fair and just conduct of sexual harassment enquiries: 
the principles of natural justice must be observed in all cases, and the procedures it 
employs must be impartial and rigorous. 
Finally, the Vishaka guidelines make the constitution of ICCs in every workplace 
an expression of the employer’s commitment to a non-discriminatory workplace, in 
which the dignity, health and safety of every woman is guaranteed. This commitment 
therefore entails not only the deterrence of sexual harassment, but also its prevention. 
The employer, through the ICC, must ensure that the institution adopts a policy 
against sexual harassment that addresses the issues of its particular environment 
and the challenges and vulnerabilities of people who work and live there. Such a 
policy must be given adequate and sustained publicity, with the aim of educating and 
sensitising the entire university community about what sexual harassment is and the 
higher education institution’s zero tolerance to it. 
Part of the preventive work should also be the enabling of discussions on the 
campus on issues of gender, sexuality, consent and violence for example. It should 
be stressed that sexual harassment is by definition against the consent of the person 
concerned. It should not be confused with consensual relationships between men and 
women on a campus. Thus, preventive work should in no way focus on censuring 
these. It must also be emphasized that the policing of students, or the impositions 
of dress codes for either or both men and women students and employees in the 
work place do not constitute ‘prevention’ in any form, as the restriction of any 
individual’s liberty and autonomy is discriminatory, and cannot be the basis for 
justice and redressal. 
Page | 70
5.2 Guiding Principles 
Guiding Principles for the constitution and functioning of anti-sexual harassment 
committees in Universities. 
The Task Force is of the opinion that the following six principles must be adopted 
as the directive principles for the institution and functioning of sexual harassment 
policies. 
5.2.1 Confidentiality 
A major impediment to the lodging of complaints of sexual harassment is the 
apprehension that the very act of a complaint will lead to adverse publicity for 
the complainant. Confidentiality with respect to the details of the complaint, the 
complainant’s identity and the person(s) who she has charged must therefore be 
mandatorily guaranteed, but by itself, this is not enough, as confidentiality must 
extend both to the procedures employed in enquiries and the witnesses involved in 
them for the guarantee to be truly meaningful. 
Since sexual harassment is an exercise of power that is traumatic for complainants, 
the enquiry process should not be one that either replicates such inequalities or causes 
trauma to the complainant. ICC proceedings should therefore ensure that: 
At no time in the complaints receiving and recording procedure should the 
respondent(s) and the complainant be placed face to face, or put in a situation where 
they may be face to face (e.g. they shall not be called at the same time and be made 
to wait in the same place), in order to protect the complainant from facing further 
trauma and/or safety problems. 
Following the Supreme Court directions in (W.P(C) 4427/2008 Page 20 of 28), the 
identity of witnesses should not be revealed to the respondent or any person acting 
on his behalf. 
Complainants and other witnesses should not be examined in the presence of 
the respondent. This can be derived from the High Court judgement in the Bidyut 
Chakraborty v. Delhi University & Ors.: 2009 VI AD, as modified by the Supreme 
Page | 71
Court, wherein the court observed that it was not obligatory for the ICC to examine 
the complainants and other witnesses who were to depose against the respondent, in 
his presence. 
Finally, the maintenance of confidentiality with regards to the proceedings of ICC 
enquiries should be the responsibility of all persons involved in the enquiry, including 
the complainant, the respondent and all witnesses. An oath of confidentiality must be 
administered to all parties with regards to the substance of their deposition during the 
enquiry; however, this commitment should not be interpreted as barring any party 
from approaching higher institutional authorities as well as the criminal\civil justice 
system for redress of specific grievances. 
5.2.2 Non-coercion and Interim Relief 
The 2013 Act has built on the Vishaka guidelines by adding that the following acts 
may also amount to sexual harassment: 
presence or occurrence of circumstances of implied or explicit promise of 
preferential treatment in employment; 
threat of detrimental treatment in employment; 
threat about present or future employment; 
interference with work or creating an intimidating or offensive or hostile work 
environment; or 
humiliating treatment likely to affect the woman employee’s health or safety. 
These provisions call for an explicit recognition of the fact that in a workplace, the 
exercise of patriarchal power may equally be expressed by the abuse of institutional 
power. It is therefore incumbent upon ICCs that once a complaint has been lodged, 
they should take steps to minimise such abuses. For example, some university rules 
require an order of restraint to be issued to the respondent as soon as the complaint 
is filed, prohibiting all direct or indirect contact with the complainant, her family 
or witnesses. Violations of the order of restraint are viewed as aggravating the  
offence committed. 
Page | 72
An explicit protection from victimisation must be provided to all students and 
employee complainants and witnesses, by which in the pendency of a complaint and 
even after, the person charged with sexual harassment shall be expressly prevented 
from supervising or evaluating any academic or work-related activity of the 
complainant\witness. 
This protection should explicitly extend to the supervision of research and 
writing of the Confidential Reports of the complainant. Importantly, if the research 
work of the complainant has been retarded because of her pursuing a complaint of 
sexual harassment against her supervisor or any other person employed or studying 
in the HEI, the concerned institution must ensure that the complainant should not 
be disadvantaged or penalised for any delays with regards to her academic work. 
Furthermore, the institution must ensure that she is sanctioned a reasonable amount 
of extra time to complete her work. 
Furthermore, the 2013 Act also envisages the ICCs as providing interim relief 
to the complainant. The Act empowers the ICC to recommend to the employer, at 
the request of the aggrieved employee, interim measures such as (i) transfer of the 
aggrieved woman or the respondent to any other workplace; or (ii) granting leave to 
the aggrieved woman up to a period of 3 months in addition to her regular statutory/ 
contractual leave entitlement. University-level ICCs must obviously guarantee these 
at the very minimum; however, in a workplace as complex as the University, special 
attention must be paid to provide reasonable interim relief to students, particularly 
research students, as well. Appropriate procedures that are  in consonance with the 
guarantee of confidentiality must be put in place in all HEIs. 
Finally, it is important also to recognise that the principle of non-coercion must 
also guide the ICCs in recognising that the persons affected by sexual harassment may 
not always be women. Same-sex harassment and violence is a reality of our campuses 
and our society, and a commitment to non-coercion must also enable HEIs to redress 
such discriminatory acts. ICCs in educational institutions must also therefore be 
empowered to receive complaints of sexual harassment by men and women who have 
suffered same-sex harassment. 
Page | 73
5.2.3 Fair Enquiry 
All ICC enquiries must be carried out in accordance with a detailed procedure for 
inquiry into a complaint of sexual harassment, starting from the filing of the complaint, 
examination and cross-examination of witnesses, right up to the submission of the 
report. The governing principle should be complete transparency and impartiality, 
and the guarantee of principles of natural justice to both the complainant and the 
respondent, tempered with due attention to the aspects of confidentiality and non-
coercion. (See Appendix 12 for recommended procedures for Cross-examination and 
Appendix 13 for issues related to Conciliation.) 
At the very minimum the procedures must include the following points: 
o	
Information about who may file a complaint to the committee, the channels 
through which it may be made, and the procedure employed to record a 
complaint. 
o	
The composition of enquiry committees must include an NGO, comprise at least 
50 per cent woman and be headed by a woman). A good practice would be 
to ensure that representatives of the constituency of the complainant and the 
respondent are members of the Enquiry Committee (i.e., if the complaint is filed 
by a student against an academic staff member, then the Enquiry Committee 
must include one student and one academic staff member).  
o	
Ensure that the Enquiry Committee fulfils certain responsibilities towards 
the complainant and the respondent: for example, timely notification of the 
membership of the Enquiry Committee and the schedule of its hearings, 
the provision of the complaint to the respondent as well as the supply of all 
documents and authenticated but anonymised depositions to both parties, and 
the provision of support services like counselling and translation services, etc. 
o	
Ensure that the accused/respondent is informed about the nature and the 
details of the complaint against him, and is provided with all the evidence 
has been submitted against him during the course of the enquiry (including 
the authenticated (anonymised) depositions of the witnesses from the 
complainant’s side). 
Page | 74
o	
The order and manner of enquiry, including the order of witnesses to be 
summoned, the procedure for the examination and cross-examination of 
witnesses, as well as rules for the protection of witnesses and the complainant. 
It is important also to recognize that the Rules by which ICCs must function will 
have to be updated and revised from time-to-time, both because of the fact that Court 
judgements and other laws and Rules will continue to revise the legal framework 
within which the 2013 Act is to be implemented, as also because the experiences of 
the ICCs at the institutional level will throw up new challenges. As the requisite legal 
knowledge need not necessarily be available at the institutional level in general and 
with the ICCs in particular, full institutional support must be extended to ICCs in all 
aspects of the law. 
5.2.4 Orientation towards Education and Redressal 
Given the complexity of the University as a workplace, the ICC must fully exploit its 
potential as an alternative dispute resolution mechanism; while there must be zero-
tolerance for quid pro quo harassment involving a teacher\employee and a student or 
those in any other hierarchical relationship, many cases of peer harassment between 
students would benefit from being considered as an opportunity for education and 
sensitisation, rather than stringent punitive action. While decisions on individual 
cases can only be made on the basis of the facts of the case itself, this guiding principle 
should be reflected in providing a range of penalties that sexual harassment may 
attract, all the way from warnings and apologies up to dismissal. See for example the 
JNU GSCASH Rules and the Delhi University Ordinance XV (D) for such a range. 
An oft-neglected aspect of the need for an educative and sensitisation approach is 
raised by issues of sexuality. For many young persons, the years in University are the 
first time that they can begin to address questions of sexual orientation and sexuality. 
Such self-discovery is often traumatic, and in the face of (internalised) social taboos 
and ridicule, may lead to behaviour that is violative of the rights of another. Such 
cases cannot, and must not be dealt with only at the punitive level; while all steps 
must be taken to ensure that the sexual harassment stops, an equal concern must be 
shown to the individual who is dealing with his/her own sexuality. In fact, discussing 
Page | 75
questions of sexuality and addressing the rights of sexual minorities should be an 
activity that must be undertaken by all ICCs in HEIs. 
The specific redressal a particular complaint demands will similarly have to vary 
according to individual cases, but the objective of the interventions by ICCs must 
first and foremost be to ensure that the sexual harassment stops at once. Redressal 
at the end of an enquiry in which harassment has been established must be tailored 
to address the needs of the complainant – be they academic or personal. Events of 
sexual harassment and enquiries into complaints exact a tremendous toll on the 
complainant’s health and concentration and merely punitive recommendations do 
not address these.  
5.2.5 Representative Committees 
Since the UGC notification of 1998, many educational institutions have constituted 
their Vishaka-compliant committees through a variety of modes, including direct 
election, and in many cases, these modes have been incorporated into the Rules, 
Regulations, Statutes, and/or Ordinances of the institution concerned. 
Representative committees have been challenged and upheld in the courts. 
In the Dr. B.N. Ray vs. Ramjas College & Ors judgement on 21 May 2012, the Hon. 
High Court of Delhi observed (with regards to Delhi University): “In our view, such 
a composition also meets the objective of ensuring that all sections of the college 
community have full faith in the functioning of Committee on account of presence of 
their representatives on it. The findings of such a broad based Committee are likely 
to be better received and accepted by all the sections of the college community”. And 
in response to this being challenged …“…We also fail to appreciate how inclusion 
of students or representatives of students or non-teaching employees, including the 
representative of Group D employees, can be said to be violative of Article 14 of the 
Constitution. It was very much in the domain and competence of the University to 
provide, by way of Ordinance, that the members of the Committee would include 
representatives from all the sections of the college community”. 
A core guiding principle is that individual institutions should be empowered to 
choose whichever method of composition of ICCs that is deemed appropriate by the 
Page | 76
work place community (students, employees and the person(s) in charge of the HEIs), 
as long as the composition of the ICC complies with the Act of 2013, and is given the 
force of Rules, Regulations, Statutes and/or Ordinances of the institution concerned. 
While it could be the case that the mode of direct election is not feasible across all 
HEIs, it is nevertheless important that the composition of ICCs does not replicate the 
power inherent in workplace hierarchies. ICCs must contain representation from all 
sections, particularly junior levels, of the workplace. Furthermore, such representation 
must not be directly nominated by the employer; rather, transparency and a principled 
basis for membership on the ICC should be arrived at after involving all sections of 
the HEI community. 
5.2.6	 Administrators’ Zero-Tolerance to Sexual harassment and gen-
der-discrimination 
The 2013 Act makes employers liable for an institution’s non-compliance with the 
provisions of the Act (including the failure to constitute a Committee, include details 
of sexual harassment cases in the annual report etc.). The first instance of such violation 
is punishable with a fine of INR 50,000, and repeated violations are likely to result in 
higher penalties. 
In the Task Force’s view, the heads of educational institutions must mandatorily 
extend full support to the ICCs to ensure that prevention and deterrence of sexual 
harassment in the workplace is actually affected. The best practice should be to treat 
ICC recommendations as binding, and to consider any dilution or enhancement of the 
action recommended as needing written justification. Furthermore, the educational 
institution must afford all possible institutional resources to the functioning of the 
Complaints Committee, including office and building infrastructure (computers, 
photocopiers, audio-video equipment, etc.), office staff, and counselling and legal 
services as well as a sufficient allocation of financial resources. In addition, at the 
very minimum, the following steps need to be taken by persons in charge of HEIs 
to ensure: 
o	
An annual notification notifying the names and contact details of the members 
of the ICC. 
Page | 77
o	
Publication and dissemination of the HEI’s policy against sexual harassment 
and its rules. 
o	
Provision of legal, medical and counselling assistance to complainants. 
o	
Implementation of the guarantees of confidentiality and protection against 
victimization. 
o	
Provision of an atmosphere in the workplace in which the functioning of the ICC 
are not subjected to undue “pressure from senior levels”. 
o	
Forward to the government department concerned as well as the UGC, the 
Annual Report of GSCASH together with a written report on the Action Taken 
by the HEI upon the decisions/recommendations of the GSCASH and/or the 
Appeals Committee. 
o	
Ensure that the ICC organizes programmes for the gender sensitisation of the 
HEI community through workshops, seminars, posters, film shows, debates, 
skits, etc. 
o	
Ensure the sensitivity of the HEI security services and other institutional services 
to the ICC with regards to the redressal of complaints of sexual harassment in 
the workplace. 
o	
Organize mandatory training sessions for members of the ICC, so that they may 
discharge their functions in a law-abiding manner, and that the ICCs function in 
compliance with the 2013 Act. 
5.3	
Specially Vulnerable Groups 
Sexual harassment is an assertion of power. Though all women and some men can 
be the targets of sexual harassment, the feedback obtained from the Open Forums as 
well as long standing experience of ICCs makes it evident that vulnerability can be 
compounded. 
Firstly, the vulnerability of women can be compounded through forms of 
existing social discrimination based on region, class, caste, minority identity or sexual 
Page | 78
orientation among others. Many of these aspects of identity or social background 
remain invisible or stigmatized and therefore sensitivity must be developed to enable 
students and staff who are vulnerable in these ways to come forward and seek redressal 
in an atmosphere of trust. 
Secondly, women can find themselves in vulnerable situations for reasons having 
more to do with the structures of HEIs themselves. Here we include women with 
disabilities who are placed in relations of unique dependency because they are 
differently abled, and hence require forms of assistance for their basic needs. This 
situation is exacerbated by the lack of facilities on campuses which are built only with 
the abled bodied in view. This is also why campuses must be disabled friendly. The 
differently abled can be particularly susceptible to harassment or abuse. Access to 
institutional structures such as anti-ragging committees or ICCs must be enabled and 
facilitated. Some universities have provided for enabling committees to address the 
special needs of the differently abled students and it is suggested that these committees 
work with women’s cells to provide counselling and facilitation in terms of access to 
ICCs where needed. 
Special mention must also be made of research students whose work and study 
places them under a supervisor. Research supervision carries considerable power 
with it since the degree and future of a student hangs on the successful completion of 
such research to the satisfaction of the supervisor. Research typically is contingent on 
regular interactions where the supervisor mentors the student and guides her or him 
through the process. Such power can be misused in a variety of ways to intimidate, 
create a hostile environment, or communicate quid pro quo statements all of which 
can lead to sexual harassment and considerable trauma for the student. Students 
typically experience these problems in isolation and, precisely because they fear 
reprisals if a complaint is made, can feel quite helpless with their future at stake. In 
the next section below some considerations are suggested for an ethics of supervision. 
In science departments supervisors can have enhanced power over their students, 
including through joint experiments, working late hours in laboratories, on projects 
involving significant funding, all of which lead to heightened control over students. 
Even simple matters such as disbursement of scholarships and financial grants to 
students make it more difficult for the aggrieved student to bring complaints against 
Page | 79
their supervisors. Typically also science departments are somewhat isolated from the 
rest of the university community. The Task Force was made aware of particularly 
tragic cases where a case of harassment followed by isolation led to the suicide of 
the victim. 
Staff and faculty can also be specially vulnerable depending on the nature of their 
employment. Contract workers and all ad hoc and part time employees or faculty, 
which is now a growing proportion of those employed in HEIs, are working in 
conditions which can be further exploited. Junior faculty especially at entry level or 
when awaiting promotion can also find themselves vulnerable to harassment. Clear 
guidelines against sexual harassment must therefore also be sensitive to employees 
on campuses who would ordinarily find it difficult to complain because their rights to 
employment are not secure. 
5.4	
Intimate Partner Violence 
Intimate Partner Violence is a term that is used in order to help people recognise 
the unacceptability of the violence they may be experiencing in their personal 
relationships and friendships with others. Such violence can occur in a variety of 
situations – where the relationship is otherwise consensual, in a relationship that one 
party has attempted to end, or when feelings are no longer mutual. It can take the 
form of physical, emotional, sexual or psychological actions by a person in order to 
gain power over the other. Such behaviour can be aggressive and seek to humiliate 
the other person and so lead to loss of self-esteem. There could be attempts to control 
the actions or decisions of the other person, or take even more complex forms where 
a person threatens to harm him or herself in order to maintain the relationship. While 
gender inequalities are such that the aggressor is usually a man, the complex nature of 
personal relationships is such that men may occasionally feel victimised as well. 
If a person is feeling victimised in such a relationship, it is imperative to recognise 
that this is wrong and is a form of harassment. It is important not to hide such a 
situation especially if it is not coming to an end and to bring it to the notice of friends, 
and to a person in a position of responsibility, whether a counsellor or a member 
Page | 80
of the gender sensitization committee. Early efforts to deal with such violence can 
prevent the situation from deteriorating further or on occasion coming to extremely 
tragic ends. Gender sensitization is crucial so as to enable young people to distinguish 
between affirmative friendships and relationships, and those that are causing harm. 
5.5 Ethics for Research Supervision 
The perspective that should guide ethics for research supervision is to maintain 
clear norms in the relationship such that neither is the student violated nor does her 
research suffer. Time spent with supervisors must be professionally oriented and not 
be personal. Unnecessary requests to spend time with supervisors should be avoided. 
All meetings should be during office hours in office space. Doors should either have 
glass – and this should also include laboratory doors which usually must be kept 
closed --or else doors should be kept open during meeting times. 
Any complaint made by a student about a supervisor must be forwarded to 
the Sexual Harassment committee and officially acknowledged. Following this the 
supervisor must be suspended and another faculty member assigned in consultation 
with the student. 
Page | 81
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS 
6.1 Setting up a Gender Sensitization Unit within the UGC. This will act as a nodal 
division to give effect to the policy of zero tolerance of gender based violence on 
campuses of colleges and Universities. The unit will be tasked with the responsibility 
to: 
1.	
Assist and support universities and colleges to meet mandatory requirements to 
end gender based violence and harassment including provisions for the safety 
of women students and employees on campuses. 
2.	
Provide going assistance and oversight for the functioning of the Complaints 
Committees Against Sexual Harassment on Campuses and also to monitor their 
compliance with the requirements of the Sexual Harassment Act of 2013. 
3.	
Produce materials for courses and workshops on issues pertaining to gender 
sensitization, sexual harassment and legal literacy with the help of recognised 
experts in the field and make these available to all constituent universities and 
colleges. A UGC handbook with directives, guidelines and course and workshop 
materials to be prepared. 
4.	
To ensure that regular training programmes including workshops and short 
term courses on gender sensitization become an on-going activity within both 
the curricular and co-curricular spaces. 
5.	
Provide information on research work, publications and lecture material with 
regular updates. A website and on line courses be also developed by the unit. 
6.	
Maintain an updated directory of experts and trainers with detailed coordinates 
for dissemination to HEIs. 
7.	
Ensure that all institutions under 12(f) and 12 (b) submit an annual Gender 
Audit of their campuses to the UGC. The modalities and specifics of the audit 
(including format for submission) may be detailed by the Unit in consultation 
with experts, teachers, students and members of civil society. This should be a 
requirement along the lines of Annual Submission of Accounts. The unit will 
Page | 82
also be responsible for maintaining a log of  complaints and the redress processes 
adopted by universities in response to complaints. 
8.	
Provide legal advice and guidance to HEIs that is in consonance with the larger 
policy framework of non-discrimination that recognizes that gender based 
violence often gets exacerbated at the intersections of the multiple fault lines of 
caste, class, religion and disability. 
	
Note: As the requisite legal knowledge (regarding compliance with the Sexual 
Harassment Act 2013 and the Criminal law Amendment Act) is not easily 
available at the college/university level in general and the Internal Complaints 
Committees in particular, the UGC unit may constitute a standing committee 
comprising lawyers and academics with expertise in the area of law, as well as 
university administrators to advise the ICCs with regard to the procedure and 
rules it may follow. 
9.	
Coordinate the conducting of further Open Forums in the country whether on a 
regional or any other basis for on-going sharing and accountability among HEIs 
on issues pertaining to gender sensitization and sexual harassment. 
10.	
Process applications for grants by HEIs to run gender sensitization programmes 
such as courses workshops, etc. and make allocations therein. 
11.	
Recommend funding for expanding gender sensitization programmes and the 
work of Women’s Development Cells and Gender Training Centres in HEIs. 
These are currently languishing for lack of funds. 
The UGC Unit, will comprise trained personnel dedicated exclusively to the tasks, its 
effective functioning. It may have a Steering Committee to advise and give overall 
policy direction for its day to day activities comprising academics, NGO practitioners, 
Lawyers and senior education administrators. This group must have both men and 
women members. 
Significant grants must be set aside for the unit and activities listed above under 
the 12
th plan. 
Page | 83
6.2	
The Problems of Protectionism 
While ensuring safety and access to a non-discriminatory or Sexual Harassment 
free environment, campus safety policies should not result in securitization, over 
monitoring or policing or curtailing the freedom of movement, specially for women. 
The provision of safety for women on campuses must eschew the practice or tendency 
to be overly prescriptive to women by restricting their freedom of movement. 
Concern for the safety of all women, but particularly young women students 
should not lead to discriminatory rules for women in the hostels. The attitude to 
women’s safety in hostels often infantilizes these adult women and does not empower 
them to learn to strategize about their own safety. Most importantly the focus would 
have to shift to ensuring a safe environment around the hostel and campus. An urgent 
issue to address is safety for all women on campuses who want to sit in the library 
till late or in the science departments to do experiments. Proper lighting and shuttle 
buses that take students to the hostel or the nearest bus stop are necessary. 
The mentality of “policing” as a panacea for deep prejudice only spawns alternative 
forms of violence and subjugation. 
6.3	
Gender Sensitization 
As the report has repeatedly emphasized, gender sensitization measures are the 
weakest aspect in the current functioning of committees and cells on campuses of 
HEIs. In this light the following recommendation need to be accorded the highest 
priority: 
1.	
ALL members of higher educational institutions must undergo processes of 
gender sensitization, whether students, faculty, administration or support staff. 
2.	
For employees training in gender sensitization workshops are compulsory 
and should be an incentive when evaluating candidates for promotion. Such 
workshops should be appropriately structured depending on the group being 
sensitized, with innovative methodologies and multiple formats. 
Page | 84
3.	
Among students, orientation workshops must be conducted in their first year. 
All students should have participated in some programme, workshop or course 
on gender to be eligible for the award of a degree. 
4.	
Students should be encouraged to take up student led initiatives such as a festival 
early in the year where issues related to gender sensitization and harassment can 
be taken up and discussed through different modes such as talks, discussions, 
films and cultural events. 
5.	
A culture of open discussion and a positive ethos must be the means and the 
goal of all endeavours of gender sensitization. 
6.	
There must be clarity about ‘gender’ which includes both men and women, 
critiques of the norms of masculinity and femininity. Issues of gender, moreover, 
are always intersected by class, caste, region, religion, sexuality and ability, 
which must be reflected in the structuring of processes of sensitisation. 
6.4	
Recognising and Combatting Sexual Harassment 
As this report has amply demonstrated, considerable confusion is widespread both in 
understanding and opposing sexual harassment on campuses. Clarity is required in 
understanding the specificities of educational institutions as particular kinds of work-
places where educational, preventive and correctional approaches to combatting 
sexual harassment are paramount. 
1.	
All HEIs must formulate guidelines for dealing with sexual harassment in their 
respective institutions, whether they be autonomous, affiliating, co-educational 
or women’s colleges. The proposed UGC unit on gender sensitization will 
provide a template to help institutions in this regard and allay fears of non-
compliance. 
2.	
Common tendencies of ‘blaming the victim’, putting pressure on a complainant to 
withdraw the complaint, and so on, must be actively prevented and countered. 
3.	
Sexual harassment guidelines must be seen to be implemented in the formation of 
Page | 85
the necessary committees and their representation. The policy and guidelines must 
be widely disseminated so that the presence of ICCs is well known to all members 
of HEIs. 
4.	
Quid pro quo forms of sexual harassment which affect anyone in a situation of 
subordination, whether as a student, employee, junior member of staff, faculty 
and so on must be clearly understood as unacceptable and dealt with. 
5.	
“Glass ceilings” and fears over promotion must receive more attention, as the 
feedback received by the Task Force would indicate widespread practices of 
discrimination and harassment among women working in HEIs. 
6.	
Compliance must be followed in the carrying out of the activities of committees, 
seeing through complaints, and in the submission of annual reports. 
7.	
Templates for Gender Sensitization Committees against Sexual Harassment 
have been provided in Appendices 5, 6 and 8. 
8.	
(i)	
The following composition for Anti-sexual harassment committees is 
recommended. 
	
(a)	
A Presiding Officer who shall be a woman faculty member employed 
at a senior level at the educational institution; 
	
(b)	
Not less than two teaching employees and two non-teaching 
employees, preferably committed to the cause of women or who 
have had experience in social work or have legal knowledge; 
	
(c)	
Not less than three students, who shall be enrolled at the 
undergraduate, masters, and research scholar levels respectively. 
	
(d)	
One member from amongst non-governmental organizations or 
associations committed to the cause of women or a person familiar 
with the issues relating to sexual harassment. 
	
	
Provided that at least one-half of the total Members so nominated 
shall be women. 
(ii)	
Where ICCs do not exist or are not Vishaka-compliant, the following 
composition for Anti-sexual harassment committees (ICCs) is recommended. 
It should be noted that the composition is conceived as the basic minimum, 
Page | 86
as the size of an ICC may vary depending on the requirements of the 
institutions. Furthermore, adoption of a particular mode of constitution 
of the ICC must be discussed widely in the institution in a democratic and 
transparent manner. 
	
(a)	
A Presiding Officer who shall be a woman faculty member employed 
at a senior level at the educational institution; 
	
(b) 	
Not less than two teaching employees and two non-teaching 
employees, preferably committed to the cause of women or who 
have had experience in social work or have legal knowledge; 
	
(c) 	
Not less than three students, who shall be enrolled at the 
undergraduate, masters, and research scholar levels respectively 
	
(d)	
One member from amongst non-governmental organizations or 
associations committed to the cause of women or a person familiar 
with the issues relating to sexual harassment. 
	
	
Provided that at least one-half of the total Members so nominated 
shall be women. Persons in senior administrative positions in the 
HEI, such as Vice-Chancellor, pro-VCs, Rector(s), Registrar, Dean(s), 
Heads of Departments, etc.), shall not be members of ICCs in order 
to ensure autonomy. 
(iii)	 The 2013 Act envisages a maximum term of three years for the ICC. The 
Task Force recommends that in an educational institution, a term of two 
years is adequate. Institutions may also choose to employ a system whereby 
one-third of the positions of the ICC fall vacant every year. 
9.	
The Rules by which ICCs must function will have to be updated and revised 
from time-to-time, both because of the fact that Court judgements and other 
laws and Rules will continue to revise the legal framework within which the 
2013 Act is to be implemented, and also because the experiences of the ICCs at 
the institutional level will throw up new challenges. 
10.	
The UGC must ensure that heads of educational institutions mandatorily extend 
full support to see that the recommendations of the ICC are implemented 
Page | 87
in a timely manner. All possible institutional resources must be given to the 
functioning of the Complaints Committee, including office and building 
infrastructure (computers, photocopiers, audio-video equipment, etc.), staff 
(qualified stenographers, typists, office assistants -- to be appointed on a 
permanent basis, and counselling and legal services) as well as a sufficient 
allocation of financial resources. 
11.	
Specially vulnerable groups are particularly prone to harassment and also find it 
more difficult to complain. Vulnerability can be socially compounded by region, 
class, caste, sexual orientation, minority identity and by being differently abled. 
Enabling committees must be sensitive to such vulnerabilities and special needs. 
12.	
Research students and doctoral candidates are particularly vulnerable and 
guidelines for Ethics for Research Supervision must be put in place. This is 
particularly necessary in the sciences where the power of the supervisor is 
enhanced. The main considerations for such guidelines have been specified in 
the main report above. 
12.	
The UGC Guidelines on student entitlements provides within section 6.2 and 
6.3 protection for students from ragging and sexual harassment. An additional 
emphasis could include the right to safety and a safe environment, free of 
intimidation and abuse on the basis of class, caste, region and community and 
Gender. Here too a “securitization” approach to these issues must be countered. 
13.	
Each campus should produce a ‘status report’ on sexual harassment – including 
on how their sexual harassment policy is working, cases filed, action taken etc., 
particularly reflecting on the nature of cases that come to the committee and the 
preventive measures instituted, including workshops organized. 
6.5	
Preparation of a UGC Handbook 
A handbook on sexual harassment and gender sensitization is to be prepared for all 
faculties. The proposed UGC Gender Sensitization Unit will be tasked with drawing 
on existing expertise and experience to prepare such a handbook. 
Page | 88
6.6	
Courses and Workshop Modules 
The Task force has prepared a model Course Module on Gender Sensitization.  This 
should be widely disseminated and introduced into undergraduate and postgraduate 
classrooms. 
All Academic Staff Colleges be encouraged to incorporate sessions on gender 
in their orientation and refresher courses. This should be across disciplines, and 
preferably mainstreamed. Care must be taken that they are not reduced to an exercise 
in tokenism. 
Orientation courses for administrators conducted in HEIs must have a module on 
gender sensitization and harassment issues. 
Workshops are to be conducted for all sections of the HEI community. 
6.7	
University Services and Infrastructure 
Counselling 
Counselling Services must be institutionalised properly in all HEIs. Regular faculty 
doubling up as counsellors, part time arrangements and so on, which are widely 
prevalent must be eschewed in favour of well trained (if necessary retrained) full time 
counsellors. High levels of isolation, alienation and confusion including over gender 
related problems are growing among students. 
6.7.1 Lighting 
According to feedback received many HEIs including large campuses have a deficit in 
lighting and are experienced as unsafe by students. Students should be encouraged to 
undertake a mapping of the spaces in and around their campuses in terms of lighting.  
This is a necessary aspect of infrastructure and maintenance. 
Page | 89
6.7.3 Security 
Security is a necessary aspect of safety, but should not lead to a ‘securitization’ 
approach to combatting sexual harassment. A common complaint from students has 
to do with security. Adequate and well trained security including a good balance of 
women security staff is necessary. Security must receive gender sensitization training 
apart from other conditions of service. 
6.7.4 Public Transport 
Many HEIs suffer from lack of reliable public transport. This includes lack of transport 
within large campuses between different sections of the university, especially hostels, 
libraries, laboratories and main buildings, and secondly, colleges that do not have 
good access for day scholars. Lack of safety as well as harassment is exacerbated when 
students cannot depend on safe public transport. 
Shuttle buses must be provided to enable students to work late in libraries, 
laboratories and to attend programmes in the evenings. 
6.7.5 Toilets 
Lack of adequate toilets for women with sufficient water is another common complaint 
from students both in the main buildings of campuses and in the hostels. This also 
means sufficient support staff employed with decent wages to maintain them. 
6.7.6 Accommodation 
For a growing population of young women wishing to access higher education, hostel 
accommodation is a necessity in both urban and rural areas and at all levels of higher 
education. 
Insufficient accommodation and crowding were common complaints and must be 
attended to. Many co-educational institutions reported not offering any kind of hostel 
accommodation to women, thus placing them at a severe disadvantage. Building 
requisite women’s hostels is a priority area in the 12
th Plan. 
Page | 90
Timings: Maintaining differential timings and codes of behaviour for women 
hostellers is widespread. Indeed, it has come to the notice of the Task Force that after 
the December 2012 rape incident many HEIs responded by making their timings 
and rules for women even stricter and more discriminatory than before. Some 
administrators even believe that this is the right way of being gender sensitive. It 
must therefore be reiterated firmly by the UGC that discriminatory timings and 
other forms of constraining women are NOT valid or acceptable ways of keeping 
women safe. 
Concern for the safety of all women should not lead to stricter discriminatory  rules 
for women in the hostels. The attitude to women’s safety in hostels often  infantilizes 
these adult women and does not empower them to learn to strategize about their own 
safety. 
6.7.7 Health 
Adequate health facilities are equally mandatory for all HEIs. In the case of women 
students this must include gender sensitive doctors and nurses, as well as the services 
of a gynaecologist.  
6.8	
Women’s Studies Centres/ Women’s Development Cells 
The Women’s Development Cells in Colleges must be revived and funded to be able 
to carry out the range of activities that they are entrusted with.  Their identity must 
remain autonomous of the functioning of sexual harassment committees and ICCs. 
At the same time they should extend their activities to include gender sensitization 
programmes in consultation with ICCs and to help to disseminate anti sexual 
harassment policies on campuses on a regular basis. The ‘cultural’ space and the 
‘formal academic space’ need to collaborate to render these workshops, innovative, 
engaging and non-mechanical. 
It is vital to bring in Hostel Wardens, Provosts, Principals, Vice Chancellors, 
Legal Officers and other functionaries within the domain of accountability and 
Page | 91
not see these initiatives as primarily the responsibility of Women Development 
Centres. 
6.9	
Recommended Projects/ Research 
UGC may commission a major project that 
a)	
Collates and lists accessible material of quality that is available from diverse 
sources (e.g. the IGNOU 4 volume – study material on Women’s Empowerment: 
Perspectives and Approaches; the various manuals prepared by the UGC on 
Capacity Building of Women in Higher Education. The 5 volume Gender Basics 
monographs; Bhalla Ye Gender Kya Hai and several others). It is not necessary to 
reinvent the wheel but to draw on existing material of quality which could be 
recommended to HEIs for training and incorporation in revised curricula. A 
wealth of material already exists and awaits greater purposive dissemination. 
b)	
Publishes a booklet that summarizes the various judgments over the years that 
pertain to redressal against gender based violence and issues of gender equity 
and access. 
c)	
Draws upon and adapts the “International Technical Guidance on Sexuality 
Education” manual developed by UNESCO for use in training and dissemination 
programmes in India. 
d)	
Engages in a detailed mapping exercise of prevalent procedures and practices 
(or lack of them) across HEIs in the country around the issues of safety of women 
and gender sensitization initiatives. This then, needs to be put out in the public 
domain or on the UGC website with good practices also highlighted. 
e) 	
An indicative bibliography is attached as Appendix 15. 
6.10	
Regulatory Aspects (including NAAC) 
The NAAC in its assessment and accreditation, procedures must build in an essential 
gender audit component as part of the evaluation process. 
Page | 92
It is important that potential employees at HEIs be asked at the stage of recruitment 
about their understanding of gender issues. While this may not necessarily be an 
indicator of how a person might behave, it is an important step towards foregrounding 
the behaviour that can be expected from employees
APPENDICES
Page | 95
University Grants Commission
Office Order
No.F.1-67/2013 (Cm.)	
8th January, 2013
Task Force to Review the Measures for Ensuring Safety of Women on Campuses and
Programs for Gender Sensitization
Education plays a crucial role in promoting the egalitarian commitments of Equality and Justice 
enshrined in our Constitution. It is integral to processes that engender and expand horizons of 
opportunity for all disadvantaged and marginalised groups including women. Promoting equity 
through higher education is at the very heart of the agenda of the University Grants Commission 
(UGC) and reflects its commitment to nurture and preserve democratic praxis in spaces of learning. 
Gender equality, consequently, is integral to this imperative.
Unfortunately, the spate of recent disturbing events in the national capital and in other parts 
of the country have necessitated the UGC to review the existing arrangements that have been 
put in place on the campuses of all our institutions of higher learning to ensure the freedom, 
safety and security of girls and women in particular and of the entire youth population in general. 
The UGC would strive to ensure zero tolerance on harassment, of any kind, of girls and women 
on campuses. With the help of the leaders of all educational institutions, the UGC would make 
concerted efforts to help institutions to put in place a responsive mechanism focusing not only 
on careful supervision but also on educational interventions, counselling and quick redressal. 
Accordingly, it is felt appropriate to constitute a Task Force to review present arrangements, to 
identify any loopholes or inadequacies in them and to formulate remedial measures to address the 
concerns of all girls and women, and of the youth who study and live in the country’s numerous 
and diverse campuses. The composition of the Task Force is as under:
  1.	
Prof. Meenakshi Gopinath, Member, UGC	
...	
Chair
  2.	
Prof. Mary John. CWDS, New Delhi	
...	
Co-Chair
  3.	
Prof. Yogendra Yadav , Member, UGC	
...	
Member
  4.	
Prof. Uma Chakravarty, University of Delhi	
...	
Member
  5.	
Prof. Gopal Guru, JNU, New Delhi	
...	
Member
  6.	
Prof. Wasbir Hussain. CDPS, Guwahati	
...	
Member
  7.	
Dr. Sanjay Srivastava, IEG, Delhi	
...	
Member
  8.	
Prof. Susie Tharu, EFLU, Hyderabad	
...	
Member
 9.	
Dr. Kulwinder Kaur, Jamia Millia Islamia	
...	
Member
10.	
Dr. (Mrs.) Archana Thakur, DS, UGC	
...	
Coordinator
Appendix 1(a)
...2/-
Page | 96
The Terms of Reference of the Task Force will be as under
(i)	
To analyse and assess the extent to which the existing arrangements for safety of women, both 
students and employees in particular, and youth in general, are adequate on the campuses of 
the institutions;
(ii)	
To identify shortcomings in the existing system and to suggest measures to put in place strong 
safeguards.
(iii)	
To evaluate grievance Redressal mechanism for gender specific concerns and to suggest 
measures to strengthen them;
(iv)	
To suggest academic measures and action programmes to bring about changes in practices and 
attitudes within society towards recognizing the fundamental right to gender equality;
(v)	
To suggest how gender education and sensitization can be made an integral part of the university 
curriculum in all subject domains;
(vi)	
To suggest how awareness of gender sensitive issues be made an essential eligibility criterion in 
the future recruitment of university staff - both teaching as well as non­teaching.
The Task Force may evolve its own procedure to accomplish the task, including cooption of members, as 
well as to suggest an appropriate future course of action. The Task Force will submit its report within a period 
of two months from the date of notification. The UGC shall provide all the necessary logistics and support to 
the Task Force in the conduct of the work entrusted to it.
(Ved Prakash)
Chairman (Acting)
Copy to :
Secretary, UGC for issue of necessary administrative orders.
1.	
Dr. (Mrs.) Archana Thakur, DS, UGC for intimating the Members of the Task Force and 
2.	
convene the first meeting at the earliest date.
(Ved Prakash)
Chairman (Acting)
Page | 97
http://JUDIS.NIC.IN
SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
Page 1 of 10 
PETITIONER:
VISHAKA & ORS.
        Vs.
RESPONDENT:
STATE OF RAJASTHAN & ORS.
DATE OF JUDGMENT:       13/08/1997
BENCH:
CJI, SUJATA V. MANOHAR, B. N. KIRPAL
ACT:
HEADNOTE:
JUDGMENT:
                      J U D G M E N T
Verma, CJI:
     This Writ  Petition has  been filed for the enforcement
of the  fundamental rights  of working  women under Articles
14, 19  and 21  of the  Constitution of India in view of the
prevailing climate in which the violation of these rights is
not uncommon.  With the increasing awareness and emphasis on
gender justice,  there is  increase in  the effort  to guard
such violations;  and the  resentment towards  incidents  of
sexual harassment  is also  increasing. The present petition
has been  brought  as  a  class  action  by  certain  social
activists and  NGOs with  the  aim  of  focussing  attention
towards this  societal aberration,  and assisting in finding
suitable methods  for realisation  of the  true  concept  of
’gender equality’;  and  to  prevent  sexual  harassment  of
working women  in all  work places through judicial process,
to fill the vacuum in existing legislation.
     The  immediate  cause  for  the  filing  of  this  writ
petition is  an incident  of alleged  brutal  gang  rape  of
social worker  in a  village of  Rajasthan. That incident is
the subject  matter of  a separate  criminal action  and  no
further mention  of it,  by us,  is necessary.  The incident
reveals the  hazards to which a working woman may be exposed
and the depravity to which sexual harassment can degenerate;
and the  urgency for  safeguards by an alternative mechanism
in the  absence of  legislative measures.  In the absence of
legislative measures,  the need  is  to  find  an  effective
alternative mechanism  to fulfil this felt and urgent social
need.
     Each  such   incident  results   in  violation  of  the
fundamental rights  of ’Gender  Equality’ and  the ’Right of
Life and Liberty’. It is clear violation of the rights under
Articles 14,  15 and  21 of Constitution. One of the logical
consequences of  such an  incident is  also the violation of
the victim’s  fundamental right  under Article  19(1)(g) ’to
practice any  profession or  to carry  out  any  occupation,
trade or  business’. Such violations, therefore, attract the
remedy  under  Article  32  for  the  enforcement  of  these
fundamental rights of women. This class action under Article
32 of  the Constitution  is  for  this  reason.  A  writ  of
Appendix 1(b)
Page | 98
http://JUDIS.NIC.IN
SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
Page 2 of 10 
mandamus in  such a  siltation, if  it is  to be  effective,
needs to be accompanied by directions for prevention; as the
violation of  fundamental rights of this kind is a recurring
phenomenon.  The   fundamental  right   to  carry   on   any
occupation, trade  or profession depends on the availability
of a  "safe" working  environment. Right  to life means life
with dignity.  The primary  responsibility fro ensuring such
safety and  dignity through  suitable legislation,  and  the
creation of  a mechanism  for its  enforcement,  is  of  the
legislature and  the executive.  When, however, instances of
sexual harassment  resulting  in  violation  of  fundamental
rights of  women workers  under Articles  14, 19  and 21 are
brought before us for redress under Article 32, an effective
redressal requires  that some guidelines should be laid down
for the  protection of  these rights to fill the legislative
vacuum.
     The notice  of the  petition was  given to the State of
Rajasthan and  the Union  of India.  The  learned  Solicitor
General  appeared  for  the  Union  of  India  and  rendered
valuable assistance  in the  true spirit of a Law Officer to
help us  find a  proper solution  to this  social problem of
considerable magnitude.  In addition  to Ms. Meenakshi Arora
and Ms.  Naina  Kapur  who  assisted  the  Court  with  full
commitment, Shri  Fali S.  Nariman appeared as Amicus Curiae
and rendered  great assistance. We place on record our great
appreciation for  every counsel who appeared in the case and
rendered the  needed  assistance  to  the  Court  which  has
enabled us  to deal  with this  unusual matter in the manner
considered appropriate for a cause of this nature.
     Apart from  Article 32 of the Constitution of India, we
may refer  to some  other provision  which envisage judicial
intervention for  eradication  of  this  social  evil.  Some
provisions in  the Constitution  in addition to Articles 14,
19(1)(g) and 21, which have relevance are:
     Article 15:
     "15. Prohibition  of discrimination
     on  grounds   of  religion,   race,
     caste, sex or place of birth.-
     (1)    The    State    shall    not
     discriminate against any citizen on
     only of religion, race, caste, sex,
     place of birth or any of them.
     (2)   xxx                      xxxx
     xxxx
     (3) Nothing  in this  article shall
     prevent the  State from  making any
     special  provision  for  women  and
     children.
     (4)         xxxx               xxxx
     xxxx"
     Article 42:
     "42. Provision  for just and humane
     conditions of  work  and  maternity
     relief  -   The  State  shall  make
     provision  for  securing  just  and
     humane conditions  of work  and for
     maternity relief."
     Article 51A:
     "51A.  Fundamental   duties.  -  It
     shall be  the duty of every citizen
     of India, -
     (a) to  abide by  the  Constitution
     and   respect    its   ideals   and
     institutions, ...
     xxxx                           xxxx
Page | 99
http://JUDIS.NIC.IN
SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
Page 3 of 10 
     xxxx
     (e)  to  promote  harmony  and  the
     spirit   of    common   brotherhood
     amongst all  the  people  of  India
     transcending religious,  linguistic
     and    regional     or    sectional
     diversities; to  renounce practices
     derogatory to the dignity of women;
     xxx                            xxxx
     xxxx"
     Before we  refer to  the international  conventions and
norms having relevance in this field and the manner in which
they  assume   significance  in   application  and  judicial
interpretation, we  may advert  to some  other provisions in
the Constitution  which permit  such use.  These  provisions
are:
     Article 51 :
     "51.  Promotion   of  international
     peace  and  security  -  The  State
     shall endeavour to -
     xxxx                           xxxx
     xxxx
     (c)     foster      respect     for
     international   law    and   treaty
     obligations  in   the  dealings  of
     organised people  with one another;
     and
     xxx                             xxx
     xxx"
Article 253 :
"253.  Legislation   for  giving   effect  to  international
agreements  -  Notwithstanding  anything  in  the  foregoing
provisions of this Chapter, Parliament has power to make any
law for  the whole or any part of the territory of India for
implementing any  treaty, agreement  or convention  with any
other country  or countries  or any  decision  made  at  any
international conference, association or other body."
     Seventh Schedule :
         "List I - Union List:
     xxxx                           xxxx
     xxxx
     14.  Entering   into  treaties  and
     agreements with  foreign  countries
     and   implementing   of   treaties,
     agreements  and   conventions  with
     foreign countries.
     xxx                             xxx
     xxx"
     In the  absence of domestic law occupying the field, to
formulate effective  measures to  check the  evil of  sexual
harassment of working women at all work places, the contents
of International  Conventions and  norms are significant for
the purpose  of interpretation  of the  guarantee of  gender
equality, right  to work  with human dignity in Articles 14,
15 19(1)(g)  and 21  of the  Constitution and the safeguards
against   sexual    harassment   implicit    therein.    Any
International   Convention   not   inconsistent   with   the
fundamental rights  and in  harmony with  its spirit must be
read into  these  provisions  to  enlarge  the  meaning  and
content thereof, to promote the object of the constitutional
guarantee. This  is implicit from Article 51(c) and enabling
power of  the Parliament  to enact laws for implementing the
International Conventions and norms by virtue of Article 253
read with  Entry 14 of the Union List in Seventh Schedule of
the Constitution.  Article 73  also is relevant. It provides
Page | 100
http://JUDIS.NIC.IN
SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
Page 4 of 10 
that the  executive power  of the  Union shall extend to the
matters with  respect to  which Parliament has power to make
laws. The  executive  power  of  the  Union  is,  therefore,
available till  the parliament  enacts to  expressly provide
measures needed to curb the evil.
     Thus, the  power of  this Court  under Article  32  for
enforcement of  the fundamental  rights  and  the  executive
power of the Union have to meet the challenge to protect the
working women  from  sexual  harassment  and  o  make  their
fundamental rights  meaningful. Governance of the society by
the rule  of law  mandates this  requirements as  a  logical
concomitant  of  the  constitutional  scheme.  The  exercise
performed by  the Court  in this  matter is with this common
perception shared  with the  learned Solicitor  General  and
other members of the Bar who rendered valuable assistance in
the performance of this difficult task in public interest.
     The progress  made at  each hearing  culminated in  the
formulation of  guidelines to  which the Union of India gave
its  consent   through  the   learned   Solicitor   General,
indicating that  these should  be the  guidelines and  norms
declared by  this Court  to  govern  the  behaviour  of  the
employers and  all others  at the  work places  to curb this
social evil.
     Gender  equality   includes  protection   from   sexual
harassment and  right to  work  with  dignity,  which  is  a
universally recognised basic human right. The common minimum
requirement of  this right  has received  global acceptance.
The International  Conventions and  norms are, therefore, of
great significance  in the  formulation of the guidelines to
achieve this purpose.
     The obligation  of this  Court under  Article 32 of the
Constitution for the enforcement of these fundamental rights
in the  absence of legislation must be viewed along with the
role of  judiciary envisaged  in the  Beijing  Statement  of
Principles of  the Independence  of  the  Judiciary  in  the
LAWASIA region.  These principles were accepted by the Chief
Justices of  the Asia  and the Pacific at Beijing in 1995 as
those representing  the minimum  standards necessary  to  be
observed in order to maintain the independence and effective
functioning  of   the  judiciary.   The  objectives  of  the
judiciary mentioned in the Beijing Statement are:
     "Objectives of the Judiciary:
     10. The objectives and functions of
     the    Judiciary     include    the
     following:
     (a) to  ensure that all persons are
     able to  live  securely  under  the
     Rule of Law;
     (b) to  promote, within  the proper
     limits of  the  judicial  function,
     the observance  and the  attainment
     of human rights; and
     (c)   to    administer   the    law
     impartially   among   persons   and
     between persons and the State."
     Some provisions  in the  ’Convention on the Elimination
of  All   Forms  of   Discrimination  against   Women’,   of
significance in the present context are:
     Article 11:
     "1. States  Parties shall  take all
     appropriate measures  to  eliminate
     discrimination against women in the
     field of  employment  in  order  to
     ensure, on basis of equality of men
     and  women,  the  same  rights,  in
Page | 101
http://JUDIS.NIC.IN
SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
Page 5 of 10 
     particular:
     (a)  The   right  to   work  as  an
     inalienable  right   of  all  human
     beings;
     xxxx                          xxxxx
     xxxx
     (f)  The  right  to  protection  of
     health and  to  safety  in  working
     conditions,      including      the
     safeguarding  of  the  function  of
     reproduction.
     xxx                           xxxxx
     xxxxx
Article 24 :
     "States  Parties   undertake  to  adopt  all  necessary
measures at  the national  level aimed at achieving the full
realization  of   the  rights   recognised  in  the  present
Convention."
     The general recommendations of CEDAW in this context in
respect of Article 11 are :
     "Violence    and     equality    in
     employment:
     22. Equality  in employment  can be
     seriously impaired  when women  are
     subjected   to    gender   specific
     violence, such as sexual harassment
     in the work place.
     23. Sexual harassment includes such
     unwelcome    sexually    determined
     behavior as  physical contacts  and
     advance, sexually coloured remarks,
     showing  pornography   and   sexual
     demands,  whether   by   words   or
     actions.  Such   conduct   can   be
     humiliating and  may  constitute  a
     health and  safety problem;  it  is
     discriminatory when  the woman  has
     reasonable grounds  to believe that
     her  objection  would  disadvantage
     her   in    connection   with   her
     employment, including recruiting or
     promotion, or  when  it  creates  a
     hostile    working     environment.
     Effective complaints procedures and
     remedies,  including  compensation,
     should be provided.
     24. States  should include in their
     reports  information  about  sexual
     harassment,  and   on  measures  to
     protect    women     from    sexual
     harassment  and   other  forms   of
     violence of  coercion in  the  work
     place."
     The  Government   of  India   has  ratified  the  above
Resolution on June 25, 1993 with some reservations which are
not material  in the  present context.  At the  Fourth World
Conference on  Women in Beijing, the Government of India has
also made  a official  commitment, inter  alia, to formulate
and operationalize  a national  policy on  women which  will
continuously guide  and inform  action at every level and in
every sector;  to set  up a Commission for Women’s Rights to
act as  a  public  defender  of  women’s  human  rights;  to
institutionalise a  national level  mechanism to monitor the
implementation  of   the  Platform   for  Action.  We  have,
therefore, no  hesitation in  placing reliance  on the above
Page | 102
http://JUDIS.NIC.IN
SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
Page 6 of 10 
for the  purpose of  construing  the  nature  and  ambit  of
constitutional  guarantee   of  gender   equality   in   our
Constitution.
     The meaning  and  content  of  the  fundamental  rights
guaranteed in  the Constitution  of India  are of sufficient
amplitude to  compass all  the  facets  of  gender  equality
including  prevention   of  sexual   harassment  or   abuse.
Independence of Judiciary forms a part of our constitutional
scheme. The  international conventions  and norms  are to be
read into  them in  the  absence  of  enacted  domestic  law
occupying the  fields when there is no inconsistency between
them. It  is now  an accepted  rule of judicial construction
that regard  must be  had to  international conventions  and
norms  fro   construing  domestic   law  when  there  is  no
inconsistency between  them and  there  is  a  void  in  the
domestic law.  The High  Court of  Australia in Minister fro
Immigration and  Ethnic Affairs  vs. Tech.  128 ALR 535, has
recognised the  concept of  legitimate  expectation  of  its
observance in the absence of contrary legislative provision,
even in  the absence of a Bill of Rights in the Constitution
of Australia.
     In Nilabati Behera vs. State of Orissa 1993(2) SCC 746,
a provision  in the  ICCPR was  referred to support the view
taken that an enforceable right to compensation is not alien
to the  concept of  enforcement of a guaranteed right’, as a
public law  remedy  under  Article  32,  distinct  from  the
private law  remedy in  torts. There  is no reason why these
international conventions  and norms  cannot, therefore,  be
used  for   construing  the   fundamental  rights  expressly
guaranteed in  the Constitution  of India  which embody  the
basic concept  of gender  equality in  all spheres  of human
activity.
     In view of the above, and the absence of enacted law to
provide fro  the effective  enforcement of  the basic  human
right  of  gender  equality  and  guarantee  against  sexual
harassment  and  abuse,  more  particularly  against  sexual
harassment at  work places,  we lay  down the guidelines and
norms specified  hereinafter for  due observance at all work
places or other institutions, until a legislation is enacted
for the  purpose. This  is done  in exercise  of  the  power
available  under   Article  32   of  the   Constitution  for
enforcement of  the fundamental  rights and  it  is  further
emphasised that this would be treated as the law declared by
this Court under Article 141 of the Constitution.
     The GUIDELINES and NORMS prescribed
     herein are as under:-
     HAVING REGARD  to the definition of
     ’human rights’  in Section  2(d) of
     the Protection of Human Rights Act,
     1993,
     TAKING NOTE  of the  fact that  the
     present civil  and  penal  laws  in
     India do not adequately provide for
     specific protection  of women  from
     sexual harassment  in  work  places
     and   that    enactment   of   such
     legislation will  take considerable
     time,
     It is  necessary and  expedient for
     employers in work places as well as
     other   responsible    persons   or
     institutions  to   observe  certain
     guidelines to ensure the prevention
     of sexual harassment of women:
     1. Duty  of the  Employer or  other
Page | 103
http://JUDIS.NIC.IN
SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
Page 7 of 10 
     responsible persons  in work places
     and other institutions:
     It  shall   be  the   duty  of  the
     employer   or   other   responsible
     persons in  work  places  or  other
     institutions to  prevent  or  deter
     the commission  of acts  of  sexual
     harassment  and   to  provide   the
     procedures  for   the   resolution,
     settlement or  prosecution of  acts
     of sexual  harassment by taking all
     steps required.
     2. Definition:
     For this purpose, sexual harassment
     includes  such  unwelcome  sexually
     determined    behaviour    (whether
     directly or by implication) as:
     a) physical contact and advances;
     b) a demand or request for sexual
     favours;
     c) sexually coloured remarks;
     d) showing pornography;
     e)  any  other  unwelcome  physical
     verbal  or  non-verbal  conduct  of
     sexual nature.
     Where  any   of   these   acts   is
     committed  in  circumstances  where
     under the  victim of  such  conduct
     has a  reasonable apprehension that
     in   relation   to   the   victim’s
     employment or  work whether  she is
     drawing salary,  or  honorarium  or
     voluntary, whether  in  government,
     public or  private enterprise  such
     conduct can  be humiliating and may
     constitute  a   health  and  safety
     problem. It  is discriminatory  for
     instance   when   the   woman   has
     reasonable grounds  to believe that
     her  objection  would  disadvantage
     her   in    connection   with   her
     employment   or    work   including
     recruiting or  promotion or when it
     creates a hostile work environment.
     Adverse   consequences   might   be
     visited  if  the  victim  does  not
     consent to  the conduct in question
     or raises any objection thereto.
     3. Preventive Steps:
     All employers  or persons in charge
     of work place whether in the public
     or  private   sector  should   take
     appropriate steps to prevent sexual
     harassment.  Without  prejudice  to
     the generality  of this  obligation
     they  should   take  the  following
     steps:
     (a)  Express prohibition  of sexual
          harassment as defined above at
          the  work   place  should   be
          notified,    published     and
          circulated   in    appropriate
          ways.
     (b)   The    Rules/Regulations   of
          Government and  Public  Sector
Page | 104
http://JUDIS.NIC.IN
SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
Page 8 of 10 
          bodies relating to conduct and
          discipline   should    include
          rules/regulations  prohibiting
          sexual harassment  and provide
          for appropriate  penalties  in
          such   rules    against    the
          offender.
     (c)  As regards  private  employers
          steps  should   be  taken   to
          include     the      aforesaid
          prohibitions in  the  standing
          orders  under  the  Industrial
          Employment  (Standing  Orders)
          Act, 1946.
     (d)  Appropriate  work   conditions
          should be  provided in respect
          of work,  leisure, health  and
          hygiene to further ensure that
          there    is     no     hostile
          environment towards  women  at
          work places  and  no  employee
          woman should  have  reasonable
          grounds to believe that she is
          disadvantaged  in   connection
          with her employment.
     4.   Criminal Proceedings:
          Where such  conduct amounts to
          a specific  offence under  the
          Indian Penal Code or under any
          other law  the employer  shall
          initiate appropriate action in
          accordance with  law by making
          a    complaint     with    the
          appropriate authority.
          In   particular,   it   should
          ensure   that    victims,   or
          witnesses are  not  victimized
          or discriminated against while
          dealing  with   complaints  of
          sexual harassment. The victims
          of  sexual  harassment  should
          have  the   option   to   seek
          transfer of the perpetrator or
          their own transfer.
     5.   Disciplinary Action:
          Where such  conduct amounts to
          mis-conduct in  employment  as
          defined   by    the   relevant
          service   rules,   appropriate
          disciplinary action  should be
          initiated by  the employer  in
          accordance with those rules.
     6.   Complaint Mechanism:
          Whether or  not  such  conduct
          constitutes an  offence  under
          law  or   a  breach   of   the
          service rules,  an appropriate
          complaint mechanism  should be
          created  in   the   employer’s
          organization  for  redress  of
          the  complaint   made  by  the
          victim.     Such     complaint
          mechanism should  ensure  time
          bound treatment of complaints.
     7.   Complaints Committee:
Page | 105
http://JUDIS.NIC.IN
SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
Page 9 of 10 
          The    complaint    mechanism,
          referred  to   in  (6)  above,
          should be adequate to provide,
          where necessary,  a Complaints
          Committee,      a      special
          counsellor  or  other  support
          service,     including     the
          maintenance                 of
          confidentiality.
          The    Complaints    Committee
          should be  headed by  a  woman
          and not  less than half of its
          member   should    be   women.
          Further,   to    prevent   the
          possibility   of   any   under
          pressure  or   influence  from
          senior levels, such Complaints
          Committee  should   involve  a
          third  party,  either  NGO  or
          other  body  who  is  familiar
          with  the   issue  of   sexual
          harassment.
          The Complaints  Committee must
          make an  annual report  to the
          government          department
          concerned  of  the  complaints
          and action  taken by them. The
          employers and person in charge
          will  also   report   on   the
          compliance with  the aforesaid
          guidelines  including  on  the
          reports  of   the   Complaints
          Committee  to  the  Government
          department.
     8.   Workers’ Initiative:
          Employees should be allowed to
          raise   issues    of    sexual
          harassment at  workers meeting
          and in other appropriate forum
          and it should be affirmatively
          discussed in Employer-Employee
          Meetings.
     9.   Awareness:
          Awareness  of  the  rights  of
          female   employees   in   this
          regard should  be  created  in
          particular   by    prominently
          notifying the  guidelines (and
          appropriate  legislation  when
          enacted  on  the  subject)  in
          suitable manner.
     10.  Where sexual harassment occurs
          as  a  result  of  an  act  or
          omission by any third party or
          outsider,  the   employer  and
          person in charge will take all
          steps necessary and reasonable
          to assist  the affected person
          in  terms   of   support   and
          preventive action.
     11.   The Central/State Governments
          are  requested   to   consider
          adopting   suitable   measures
          including    legislation    to
          ensure  that   the  guidelines
Page | 106
          laid down  by this  order  are
          also observed by the employers
          in Private Sector.
     12.  These   guidelines  will   not
          prejudice any rights available
          under the  Protection of Human
          Rights Act, 1993.
      Accordingly,  we direct  that the above guidelines and
norms would  be strictly observed in all work places for the
preservation and enforcement of the right to gender equality
of the  working women. These directions would be binding and
enforceable in  law until suitable legislation is enacted to
occupy the  field. These  Writ Petitions  are  disposed  of,
accordingly.
Page | 107
P
| 97
Appendix 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Source: 
http://www.mondaq.com/india/x/238076/Discrimination+Disability+Sexual+Harassment/
Indias+New+Labour+Law+Prevention+Of+Sexual+Harassment+At+The+Workplace  
 
Scource:
http://www.mondaq.com/india/x/238076/Discrimination+Disability+Sexual+Harassment/
Indias+New+Labour+Law+Prevention+Of+Sexual+Harassment+At+The+Workplace
Page | 108
Appendix 3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page | 109
Crimes Against Women (2005-2010)
  Crime
Year
% variatior
in 2010
over 2009
2005
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
Rape
18,359
19,348
 20,737
21,467
21,397
22,172
3.6
     Incest Rape
N.A
N.A
N.A
309
404
288
-10.3
Kidnapping & Abduction
15,750
17,414
20,416
22,939
25,741
29,795
15.7
Dowry Death
6,787
7,618
8,093
8,172
8,383
8,391
0.1
Torture
53,319
63,128
75,930
75,930
89,546
94,041
5
Molestation
34,175
36,617
38,734
40,413
38,711
40,613
4-9
Sexual Harassment
9,984
9,966
10,950
12,214
11,009
9,961
-9.5
Importation of Girls
149
67
61
67
48
36
-25
Sati Prevention Act
1
0
0
1
0
0
-
Immoral Traffic
5,903
4,541
3,568
2,659
2,474
2,499
1
1ndecent Representation of
2,917
1,562
1.200
1.025
345
895
5.9
Dowry Prohibition
3,204
4,504
5,623
5,555
5,650
5,182
-8.3
Total
1,55,553
1,64,765
1,85,312
1,95,356 2,03,804
2,13,585
4.8
Source: National Crime Records Bureau, New Delhi
Source: National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB)
http://ncrb.nic.in/cii2010/cii-2010/Chapter%.pdf
Page | 110
Page | 111
Crime head-wise incidents of crime against women during 2008-2012and  
Percentage variation in 2012 over 2011
Sl. 
No.
  Crime
Year
Percentage 
Variation in
2012 over  
2011
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
1.
Rape (Sec. 376 IPC)
21,467
21,397
 22,172
24,206
24,923
3.0
2.
Kidnapping & Abduction (sec. 363 
to 373 IPC)
22,939
25,741
29,795
35,565
38,262
7.6
3.
Dowry Death  
(Sec. 302/304 IPC)
8,172
8,383
8,391
8,618
8,233
-4.5
4.
Cruelty by husband and relative 
(Sec. 498-A IPC)
81,344
89,546
94,041
99,135
106,527
7.5
5.
Assault on women with intent to 
outrage her modesty (Sec. 354 IPC)
40,413
38,711
40,613
42,968
45,351
5.5
6.
Insult to the modesty of women 
(Sec. 509 IPC)
12,214
11,009
9,961
8,570
9,173
7.0
7.
Importation of girl from foreign 
country (Sec. 366-B IPC)
67
48
36
80
59
-26.3
A.
Total IPC crime against Women
186,616
194,835
205,009
219,142
232,528
6.1
8.
Commission of Sati  
Prevention Act, 1987
1
0
0
1
-
-100.0
9.
Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, 
1956
2,659
2,474
2,499
2,435
2,563
5.3
10.
Indecent Representation of Women 
(Prohibition) Act, 1986
1,025
845
895
453
141
-68.9
11
Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961
5,555
5,650
5,182
6,619
9,038
36.5
B
Total SLL crime against Women
9,240
8,969
8,576
9,508
11,742
23.5
Total (A+B)
196,856
203,804
213,586
228,650
244,270
6.8
Table 5(A)
Source: National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB)
http://ncrb.nic.in/CD-CII2012/cii-2012/Chapter%205.pdf
Page | 112
Appendix 4
Meetings and site visits by Task Force
Preliminary Meetings of Co-Chairs	
Jan. 23, 2013
Planning Meeting of full Task Force	
Feb. 5th, 2013
Preparatory meetings for site visit	
Feb. 27th & Mar. 2013
Site visit to four Universities, Hyderabad & Open Forums - March 5th & 6th, 2013,
i) Hyderabad Univ, ii) Maulana Azad National Urdu Univ (MAANU), iii) English 
and Foreign Languages Univ. and iv) Osmania Univ.
Open Forum at Jamia Millia Islamia, Delhi	
March 18th, 2013
Open Forum organized by Kerala State Higher Education Council, - April 18th, 
2013 Trivandrum, (Members from Univ of Calicut, Univ of Kerala,
Mahatma Gandhi Univ, Sree Shankaracharya Univ of Sanskrit,
Cochin Univ of Science and Technology and Women’s Organizations)
Consultations at Delhi Univ by Members Task Force	
-April 9, 10th 2013
Open Forum, Delhi University	
- April 13th, 2013
Draft Report preparatory Consultation of Co-Chairs	
- Aug. 23, 2013
Draft Report preparatory Consultation of Co-Chairs	
- Aug. 28, 2013
Draft Report preparatory Consultation of Co-Chairs	
- Sept. 25, 2013
Consultations at JNU by Member Task Force	
- Sept. 2013
Report preparatory Consultation of Full Task Force	
- Sept. 28, 2013
Final Report Consultation of Full Task Force	
- Oct. 9, 2013
Page | 113
Appendix 5
Bill of Rights Statement of Objects and Reasons
A charter to set out the rights guaranteed to women under the Constitution of India, and to 
provide for justiciability of the various rights;
And in consideration of India’s commitment to international conventions including Convention 
on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women and the International 
Covenant on Civil and Political Rights.
And to recognize the historical distinctions, exclusions and restrictions on the basis of gender, 
while also taking note that certain practices including cultural, social, political, religious and 
customary norms are patriarchal and impair the agency, dignity and equality of women.
And being firmly convinced that any practice that hinders or endangers the normal growth and 
affects the physical and psychological development of women and girls should be condemned 
and eliminated;
And being determined to ensure that the rights of women are promoted, realised and protected 
in order to enable them to enjoy fully all their human rights;
Part I: Right to Life, Security, and Bodily Integrity
1.	
Every woman shall be entitled to respect for her life and the integrity and security 
of her person. All forms of violence, exploitation, cruel, inhuman or degrading 
punishment and treatment targeting women are prohibited.
2.	
Every woman as the right to dignity inherent in a human being and to the 
recognition and protection of her human and legal rights.
3.	
Every woman has the right to be respected as an independent person and to the 
free development of her personality.
4.	
Every woman has the right to express and experience complete sexual autonomy 
including with respect to her relationships and choice of partners.
Page | 114
5.	
Every woman has the right not to be subjected to medical or scientific experiments 
without her informed consent; with an exception in the case of an emergency;
6.	
The State shall ensure to every woman protection from all forms of violence 
whether the violence takes place in private or public, including unwanted or 
forced sexual intercourse or activity;
7.	
The State shall protect, rescue and rehabilitate every woman who is at the risk of 
or has been a victim of trafficking and all other forms of such treatment.
8.	
The State shall promptly provide effective mechanisms and accessible services 
for information, redressal, rehabilitation and reparation of every woman being a 
victim of violence.
Part II: Democratic and Civil Rights
9.	
Every woman should have the right to participative governance through 
participation without discrimination in all elections; representation at all levels 
in electoral processes; equal opportunity for partnership in decision making and 
implementation of development and economic programs.
10.	
Every woman has the right to freedom of thought, conscience, religion, and 
belief, including the right to adopt, convert, and to hold opinions without 
interference.
11.	
Every woman has the right to manifest that person’s religion or belief in worship, 
observance, practice, teaching, ideas, or opinions of her own choosing, either 
individually or in community with others, both, in public or private.
12.	
Every woman has the right to freedom of expression, including the freedom to 
seek, receive, and impart information and opinions of any kind in any form.
13.	
Every woman has the right to freedom of peaceful assembly.
14.	
Every woman has the right to freedom of association.
Page | 115
Part III: Equality and Non- Discrimination
15.	
Every woman shall have the right to equality before the law and equal protection 
of all the laws.
16.	
No woman shall be unfairly discriminated on grounds of gender including-
(1)	
Preventing women from inheriting family property.
(2)	
(b)	 Any practice including traditional, customary or religious practice that 
impairs dignity of women and undermines equality between women 
and men, including the undermining of the dignity and wellbeing of 
the girl child.
(3)	
Any policy or conduct that unfairly limits access of women to land rights 
and finance and other resources
(4)	
Discrimination on grounds of pregnancy
(5)	
Limiting access to health care, education and other social welfare.
(6)	
Denying access to opportunities including services or contractual 
opportunities or failure to accommodate diversity.
(7)	
Systematic inequality in access of labour, contractual opportunities etc.
(8)	
Systemic inequality to opportunities by women as a result of sexual division 
of labour.
(9)	
Or discrimination by virtue of a woman belonging to another sub-sect of 
caste, religion, region or race.
17.	
Every woman shall have the freedom to marry any person of her choice and be 
regarded as an equal partner in the marriage.
18.	
Every woman shall have the same rights in case of separation, divorce and 
annulment of marriage.
19.	
Every woman shall have the Right to Free Education until under-graduate 
level.
Page | 116
20.	
Every woman especially the girl-child must be protected from all forms of abuse, 
including sexual harassment in schools and other educational institutions and 
provide for sanctions against the perpetrators of such practices;
21.	
Every woman who suffers abuses and sexual harassment must have access to 
counseling and rehabilitation services to women who suffer abuses and sexual 
harassment;
22.	
Every woman shall have the Right to Reproductive and Sexual Health.
23.	
Every woman shall have the right to nutritious and adequate food as well as 
access to clean drinking water.
Part IV: Right to Secured spaces
24.	
Every woman shall have the right to equal access to housing/shelter and to 
acceptable living conditions in a healthy environment.
25.	
Every woman, whatever her marital status has access to adequate housing/ 
shelter.
26.	
Every woman should have access to Public Transport facilities without fear of 
the risk of violation of her dignity in any form by means of teasing, molestation, 
stalking etc.
Part V: Special protections
27.	
Every elderly woman must have specific measures commensurate with her 
physical, economic and social needs as well as her access to employment and 
professional training;
28.	
Every elderly woman must have the right to freedom from violence, including 
sexual abuse, discrimination based on age and the right to be treated with 
dignity.
Page | 117
29.	
Every woman with disability must have special protection and specific measures 
commensurate with their physical, economic and social needs to facilitate their 
access to employment, professional and vocational training as well as their 
participation in decision­making;
30.	
Every woman with disability must have freedom from violence, including sexual 
abuse, discrimination; and the right to be treated with dignity.
Part VI: Special Protection of Women in Distress
31.	
Every woman below poverty line; and women heads of families including 
women from marginalized population groups must be able to fulfill their special 
physical, economic and social needs;
32.	
Every pregnant or nursing women or women in detention must be provided with 
an environment which is suitable to their condition and should be guaranteed 
the right to be treated with dignity.
Page | 118
Appendix 6
CHAPTER FOURTEEN
EDUCATION AND PERCEPTION REFORM
Preventing Stereotyping “Male silence response to female expression of emotions or 
appeal to group solidarity can also serve to reinforce messages of female inferiority 
encouraging further female silence...One reason little boys become inexpressive is not 
simply because our culture expects boys to be that way - but because our culture 
expects little boys to grow up to hold positions of power and prestige1.”
1.	
There is a similar expectation upon the girl when we commonly use the phrase 
that ‘girls mature faster than boys’. This expectation is symbolic of women 
merely being made aware of their sexuality at an early age and at an age when 
their male counterparts have relatively more freedom at least physically, while 
having their freedom of expression curtailed.
2.	
This process of blinkered acculturation is compounded by the other social 
hierarchies where the girl child is brought up to believe that she is not just the 
repository of the ‘honour’ of her own family but also that of her community/ 
caste etc. False morality is administered from childhood and patriarchy makes 
women accomplices in its institutionalization and women themselves reinforce 
patriarchal norms over generations. There is, what Delige explains in a caste 
context, a culture of ‘replication and consensus’, there certain practices are 
replicated over generations having being normalized in a society and the 
consensus on such a normative values is a corollary of the first principle.2
3.	
Shekhar Seshadri and Viay Chandran, in Rethinking Masculinities write about 
patriarchy and socialisation; “The perpetuation of patriarchy through socialisation 
1 Andrew E. Taslitz, Extracts From Rape And The Culture of The Culture Of The Court Room, New York 
University Press (1999) P71
2 Deliege, R. 1992. ‘Replication and consensus: Untouchability, caste and ideology in India’, Man, 
Volume: 155-73.
Page | 119
begins early on with the celebration of a male child’s birth. Particularly in South 
Asia, the way children are brought up throws light on how knowledge about 
gender roles is constructed within families and in society. Children internalise 
this socialisation and reproduce traditional gender roles. Socialisation also 
genders children’s play by providing notions of appropriateness, which exclude 
girls and boys from each other’s experiences. Boys are conditioned to believe that 
power and violence resides unchallenged in their bodies and girls are brought 
up to uphold notions of traditional values and virtues to protect family honour. 
Boys are also expected to protect that honour and control girls and women. The 
construct of virginity or that purity resides in one part of the female body (that 
has no scientific, philosophical or biological legitimacy) only enables further 
control of women’s bodies and female sexuality. All these are constructs of 
patriarchy, which men use to negotiate power or dishonour somebody else.”3
4.	
Further, they recommend that one must ensure children’s experiences are not 
gendered i.e., “a certain way of playing or relating cannot be constructed as 
masculine or feminine, but merely as an experience. Once socialisation ceases to 
be about gender-biased expectations, children’s experiences can naturally teach 
them about inequalities and rights of others.”
5.	
‘Power and entitlement’ are also acquired through socialisation processes 
and later naturalised, rather than vice versa; “Everyone experiences power 
differently in society. Men may be powerful in many contexts, but powerless in 
situations.”4
6.	
Here the authors also observe the identities that are built through class or caste 
and have a direct bearing on ‘power’ being categorised by hierarchies.
7.	
Additionally, the experience of power is often about entitlement of power. The 
construct of entitlement is also part of the socialization processes. Male children 
are conditioned to believe that they are entitled to opportunities or access to 
facilities over female children. This is not challenged, even in later years, but 
3 Andrew E. Taslitz, Extracts From Rape And The Culture of The Culture Of The Court Room, New York 
University Press (1999) P71
4 Ibid
Page | 120
there is very clear knowledge that such an entitlement is being gained at the cost 
of women. There is a common assumption and ‘an oft-repeated public debate’ 
aims at attempting to understand if men are inherently more aggressive than 
women.
8.	
“Nature and biology are consistently blamed for male aggression and 
uncontrolled raging hormones are blamed for violent outbursts in men. The 
construct being that men are incapable of controlling these, which is in effect a 
complete abdication of will and responsibility.”5
9.	
These ideas emanate from a biased history and reinforce the notion that ‘men are 
always more powerful’, assuming them to be able to make better leaders, who 
indirectly also characterize good leaders as ones who are naturally aggressive, 
making men appear better decision-makers, and consequently better equipped 
to be the sole breadearners.
10.	
Conflicts arise here because a simple examination of male experience shows that 
boys are expected to achieve masculinity at all odds to prove their manhood 
through a process of social or psychological evolution using various messages. 
“If manhood is biologically ordained, why is there a need to constantly prove it 
or achieve it? Such exercise of power and violence against women and other men 
not only structure man-woman relationships, but also among men themselves in 
society.”6 The need, as feminist activism has expressed before us, is to gender every 
sector in society and explore the ways that institutions discriminate and marginalise 
women. Institutions, like individual experiences, cannot be dominated on the basis 
of a perception of biological superiority; this is simply sexism in practice.
11.	
Stereotyping plagues the functioning of a number of social institutions. Professions 
like law, medicine, politics are considered predominantly male professions and 
patriarchal structures in these areas remain largely unchallenged. Women’s 
merit is repeatedly questioned with respect to handling responsibilities within 
these institutions.
5 Seshadri, S., Chandran, V., Leach, F. and Mitchell, C. 2006.
‘Reframing masculinities: using films with male adolescents to address gender-based issues’, F. Leach 
and C. Mitchell (eds.)
6 Andrew E. Taslitz 1999
Page | 121
12.	
The necessity is to not just allow for but also promote alternate forms of 
masculine expression and encourage expression and engagement with emotions 
of anger, frustration and other intense feelings. “Constructing tenderness and 
caring as legitimate emotions across all sectors of society is one such important 
alternative.” Caring and nurturing attitudes are largely understood as feminine 
virtues, thus one also has to be careful upholding another stereotype, but this 
would certainly help deconstruct the culture of superiority that pervades the 
society and is detrimental to all genders.
Recognising Discrimination
13.	
A study by Mairead Dunne, Sara Humphreys, Fiona Leach, 2003 is instructive 
understanding on the evidence of gender based violence in schools and developing 
countries and also the measures which have been taken to address them. Most 
often, gender violence is not considered differently from other forms of school 
violence7.211 As a result, an appropriate gender sensitive framework required 
to observe and intervene does not exist so that these least desirable aspects of 
school life are left unreported. Cases of gender based violence in schools can be 
characterised and reported differently and without reference to gender. Using 
a gender sensitive frame of reference, genderbased violence can be broadly 
clustered into two overlapping categories - (a) explicit gender (sexual violence), 
which includes sexual harassment, intimidation, abuse, assault and rape and 
implicit gender violence, which includes corporal punishment, bullying, verbal 
and psychological abuse, teachers unofficial use of pupils for free labour and 
other forms of aggressive or unauthorised behaviour which is gender specific.
14.	
It is important for us to note that the international efforts to increase participation 
in schools have tended to assume that the institution of the school is somewhat 
neutral. However, the Leach study reveals a large number of reports which seem 
to suggest to the contrary. Thus, the school is an important venue where the 
7 Leach, F. and Humphreys, S. 2007. ‘Gender violence in schools: Taking the a€~girls-as-victimsa€™ 
discourse forward’, Gender & Development, Volume(1): 51-65.
Page | 122
development of sexuality, access and participation with students and teachers, 
curriculum, examinations and teaching quality all play a certain part in gender 
differentiation. We understand that the school context affords a very dynamic 
experience and bearing on the extent to which gender violence can be reduced.
15.	
The school as a social arena is also marked by asymmetrical power relations. In 
a certain sense, the entire purpose of law is to correct the asymmetry of power. If 
that asymmetry of power begins in the arena of a school, we need to consider this 
closely. This asymmetry is enacted not only through gender but through age and 
authority. Additional social indicators such as ethnicity, disability and language 
are additional factors contributing to such an asymmetry. These are fundamental 
to school experiences and the quality of school life. We also therefore notice that 
within the school, the gender regime is constructed through every day, taken for 
granted routine practices. In many schools, girls are responsible for cleaning and 
boys for digging the school grounds. In some class rooms, girls may sit at the front 
of the class and boys at the back. The gender boundaries which are drawn within 
an institution help to construct and reinforce feminine and masculine identities 
within the school. Thus the school is an important area where ‘femininity’ and 
‘masculinity’ is attributed. It is necessary that the attribution must take place 
in a rational, correct, egalitarian and sensible way. We notice that the rights of 
passage to adulthood are the most critical to students. Transgressions across the 
boundaries of accepted gender behaviour are discovered through peer pressure, 
and sometimes by physical assault, intimidation, verbal abuse and deprivation. 
Among students, violence is perpetrated more often by boys and on both girls and 
other boys. In other words, violence is perpetrated on boys who do not conform 
to dominant forms of masculinity and on girls who are not sufficiently modest 
and retiring in their feminine demeanour. In other words, there is an internal 
policing which takes place of the boundaries of gender relations in schools.
16.	
We also notice that by using age/authority, power position, teachers normalise 
certain aspects of male and female behaviour. We also notice that the use of 
disciplinary sanctions can sometimes lead to abuse by those in positions of 
authority. Control through physical strength or economic advantage by male 
pupils over female pupils or younger male pupils is a case in point. Gender 
Page | 123
violence which is engaged in schools is sexual abuse. It can be aggressive 
and intimating behaviour, unsolicited physical contacts such as touching and 
groping, assault, coercive sex and rape all of which constitute abuse. In the event 
of a teacher forming a sexual relationship with a pupil, the same too constitutes 
abuse. We also are aware of hostel wardens and other social workers who are 
alleged to exploit their position of authority and perpetrate sexual abuse.
17.	
We live in a “cult of masculinity”, a cult of aggression. The term refers not so 
much to the quantity of aggression, although there is ample evidence that at least 
physical aggression (violence) is primarily a male dominion, as to the differing 
meanings men and women give to aggression. “For most men, aggression, whether 
physical or verbal is instrumental, a way of controlling others, attaining social 
or material benefits, dominance, and self-esteem. For most women, aggression 
is expressive, a release of frustration or anger, viewed as a loss of self­control 
and a danger to relationships. So conceived, female aggression is more likely 
to be private, angry and a source of guilt. Male aggression may be unconnected 
to anger and more often is public; it is necessary prerequisite for attaining self-
esteem, social dominance, and closer male bonding. This is not to say that there 
are no limits on acceptable male aggression. To the contrary, for public aggression 
to serve as an instrumental means of distributing social and economic resources 
rather than social chaos, it must be governed by rules. And on overriding rule 
is that excessive public aggression is directed towards an opponent who has no 
real chance of winning is bullying and hence unacceptable.”8
18.	
Education on gender for young men and adults will need to be distinct 
from education on gender for children. ‘Gender’ (and the associated idea of 
‘masculinity’ and ‘femininity’) is a social (not biological) construct. By young 
adulthood perceptions of gender are more fixed9.
19.	
Touching, harassment and forced intercourse are all seen as normal to masculinity. 
There is a prevalence of a misplaced belief by young men that a ‘real woman’ 
was meant to resist sexual advances. Thus the use of force becomes not only 
8 Andrew E. Taslitz, Extracts From Rape And The Culture Of The Culture Of The Court Room, New 
York University Press (1999) p25
9 Verma et al, Challenging and Changing Gender Attitudes among Young Men in Mumbai, India
Page | 124
normal, but (if a real women resists) also essential and ideal. These notions carry 
over to sexual relationships, and there combine with notions of masculinity that 
involve explosive sexuality, sexual success, independent from relationships, 
physical toughness, and loss of empathy.
20.	
The most crucial question in the context of child sexual abuse is: why is male 
perpetration of abuse so high? Abuse cannot be looked at in isolation as one 
related only to sexual harassment but rather as an issue related to children and 
to childhood; sex and sexuality, violence and violation; and at a deeper level, 
power and domination, gender and patriarchy and so on. “One construct, 
related to masculinities, is the association of potency and virility with having 
sex with virgins or children. Resolution: It is important not to essentialise the 
experience of abuse to the extent that more psychological scarring results from 
disclosure acknowledging personal abuse experiences. Open dialogues need to 
be held on abuse and exploitation with children and adults. Children need to be 
able to have child-friendly environments in which to express openly any abusive 
experiences. Above all, the experience of abuse does not determine the rest of 
the individual’s life, reclaiming sexual desire after abusive experiences is just as 
important an agenda in the healing process.”10
21.	
In view of the underreporting of rape or offences against children, it is not possible 
to have an exactly accurate figure of how many serious offences against children 
have actually taken place. In the Lancet, a 1998 study of the frequency of rape 
among a nationally representative sample of 11,735 South African women aged 
15-49 found that, of the 159 women who had been the victims of child rape, 33% 
had been raped by teachers. We are therefore of the opinion that it is not simply 
enough to speak against child rape but it is important that there must be strong, 
psychological orientation for teachers to create conditions within the school by 
which gender mainstreaming is achieved and also to ensure that counselling and 
corrections take place at the earliest when aberrations are visible. Obviously, this 
would involve a certain degree of unbiased, mature school teachers who ought 
to be able to understand the nature of such a sensitive subject.
10 Andrew E. Taslitz, Extracts From Rape And The Culture Of The Culture Of The Court Room, New 
York University Press (1999)
Page | 125
22.	
We have noticed that in United Kingdom, the principle against gender violence 
is based on what is called the marking of zero tolerance. Thus, we need to bear in 
mind that one of the initial causes for gender violence in schools may also be on 
account of discriminatory behaviour on the grounds of ethnicity, religion, age or 
disability as well as gender. This is the first aberration that a teacher must recognise 
and immediately correct. Once non- discriminatory attitude and temperament is 
developed in schools, gender equality will follow normally as a matter of course.
23.	
We are also concerned with implicit gender violence. We need to also consider that 
gender violence is an important cause of poor performance and drop out. Forms 
of sexual intimidation, verbal abuse and physical assault can lead to irregular 
attendance and under achievement of girls. Thus, we need to consider whether there 
is a manipulation of gender space by boys both inside and outside the classroom 
which constricts the participation of girls in lessons while boys themselves are 
distracted by the need to confirm their masculinity by performances of disrupting 
the lesson and demanding attention and distraction. These are serious issues.
24.	
Teacher’s wide spread use of verbal abuse can generate low-esteem and is 
more hurtful than corporal punishment. In other words, there is an intrinsic 
connection between gender identity and self-worth. Gender discrimination 
violates the evolution of a strong identity. It is true that notwithstanding this 
generalisation, there are instances of women who have catapulted and overcome 
adverse circumstances by sheer determination, extraordinary will power and by 
a tremendous instinct of survival. But these are not the measures by which we 
judge the fundamental basis of a prevalent climate in society. The exceptions do 
not prove the rule nor are the exceptions ever supposed to dictate what corrective 
steps are necessary for attitudinal changes.
25.	
Dr. Sheshadri summaries the psycho-social effects of child abuse, diagrammatically 
below:11
When abuse occurs, as in the case of child abuse the following would take place.
11 Seshadri, S., Chandran, V., Leach, F. and Mitchell, C. 2006.
‘Reframing masculinities: using films with male adolescents to address gender-based issues’, F. Leach 
and C. Mitchell (eds.)
Page | 126
Appendix 7
UGC Questionnaire on Safety for Women on college 
Campuses Survey Coding
Name of Institution	
:
Place	 :
State (Code alphabetically)
1)	
Location
	
	
Urban / Rural Code: 1/2
2)	
a) Undergraduate b) Postgraduate:
	
	
Undergraduate / Post Graduate /Both Code 1/2/3
3)	
a) Co-educational b) Women only:
	
	
Co-ed / Women Code 1/2
4)	
Number of women enrolled
	
Enter the number
II.	
Issues regarding safety of women on Campus
Have you received complaints regarding the following problems?
1)	
Sexual harassment or other forms of gender violence
	
Yes/No Code 1/2
2)	
Public transport to/from the institution:
	
Yes/No
3)	
Lighting in the campus:
	
Yes/No
4)	
Toilet facilities for women :
	
Yes/No
5)	
Accommodation for women students:
	
Yes/No
6)	
Health facilities for women students:
	
Yes/No
Page | 127
7)	
Counseling services for students:
	
Yes/No
III.	
Existing Arrangements on Campus for safety of women
1)	
What institutional arrangements do you currently have to address issues 
related to the safety of women on campus, whether students or employees?
	
1.	
CCTV/Cameras
	
2.	
Personal discussion with Students & Staff
	
3.	
Female Security Guard
	
4.	
Vigilance committee formed
	
5.	
Women’s grievance Redressal committees
	
6.	
Patrolling squad in and around campus
	
7.	
Value education to students
	
8.	
Lectures on gender sensitive issues
	
9.	
Women helpline numbers displayed at various places in campus
	
10.	
Suggestion box for girl students to place their suggestions
	
11.	
Separate common room for girls
	
12.	
Orientation programmes at the beginning of the session
	
20.	
Any other
2)	
Do you have a policy and procedure for dealing with sexual harassment?
	
Yes/No Code: 1/2
3)	
If so kindly provide details:
a)	When was such a policy established?
	
How many years ago (give number in years only or fraction)
b)	By what guidelines does it function? (Kindly send a copy along with 
this form)
	
	
Some information/ no information (Code 1/2)
Page | 128
c)	 How do you publicize your policy and procedures against sexual 
harassment?
	
1.   Notice Board
	
	2.   Brochure
	
	3.   Personal Discussion
	
	4.   College Assembly
	
	9.   Other
d)	How many meetings held in last two years?
	
Give number
e)	 	How many complaints received in last two years?
	
	Give Number
f)	 Time frame for addressing a complaint
	
Give the time in number of months
g)	What have been the outcomes of the complaints in the last two years? 
(yes means there have been outcomes, no means no outcomes)
	
Yes / No
h)	What shortcomings have been experienced in this regard? (Yes means 
that there have been shortcomings, no means no shortcomings)
	
Yes / No
i)	 What suggestions would you have to improve the situation?
	
1.   Self defence classes
	
2.   Gender studies mandatory for all courses
	
5.   Other
j)	 Is there an annual report
	
Yes/ No
IV.	 Gender Equality and Sensitization Measures on Campus
1)	
What measures are in place for raising awareness against harassment or 
violence in your institution?
Page | 129
1	 Lectures, workshops and seminars on gender issues
2	 Personal Discussion with Women Students
3	 Competitions like debate, elocution etc on gender equality, women 
empowerment
4	 Signboards/notice boards on the campus containing information /
message on these issues
5	 Helpline numbers displayed
6	 Awareness programmes and camps
9	 other
2)	
What measures exist to ensure that women students have equal access to 
campus facilities such as the library, laboratories, or any campus events at 
all times?
	
Equal	
Code 1
	
Unequal	 Code 2
	
No answer Code 3
3)	
Are there differential timings for male and female hostel residents to return 
to their respective hostels? What are the differences in the rules for each? 
For example the number of ‘late nights’ and ‘night outs’ allowed.
	
Yes / No /Not very different	
	
Code 1/2/3
4)	
Do you have any suggestions for improving gender equality on campus?
	
Yes /No	 	
Code 1/2
V.	
Gender related Courses offered on Campus
1)	
Are there any courses that focus on women and gender related topics in 
any of the departments or centers of your institution? (List these).
	
Yes/ No
2)	
Is there a Women’s Studies Centre/Department or Women’s Development 
Cell in your institution? If so kindly provide details.
	
Yes/ No
Page | 130
VI.	 Any other comments or suggestions for the consideration of the UGC.
1	
Compulsory courses in martial arts like karate for girl students for their 
self defence.
2	
Courses on women studies must be made mandatory for the colleges.
3	
Regular or periodical visits of local police on the campus can be helpful in 
for encouraging girl students to lodge the complaints, if any.
4	
Separate and exclusive financial assistance is given by UGC to the higher 
education institutions for organizing gender sensitization programmes 
and courses.
5	
Other
Page | 131
Appendix 8
A dialogue on gender-sensitization policies and programmes in  
institutions of higher education convened by Ebong Alap and  
Calcutta University Women’s Studies Research Centre (CUWSRC) on 
May 4, 2013 at CUWSRC, 4th Floor, Alipur Campus, Kolkata 700027
Excerpts from the Report
Inaugural Session
Chair: Ratnabali Banerjee, UGC
The programme starts with Ishita Mukherjee giving an inaugural welcome address. 
She highlights the main issues at hand in institutions of higher education with regards 
to gender. She talks about the important step taken up by UGC in this regards with 
the setting up of a Task Force. She extends her welcome to the chair and panelists of 
the first session—Ratnabali Banerjee, Sarmistha Dutta Gupta, Jasodhara Bagchi. She 
also mentions that this is probably the first such colloquium of its kind in the country, 
at least in the recent past.
Ratnabali Banerjee chaired the inaugural session. As the Joint Secretary of the 
UGC’s Eastern Regional Office, she highlighted what steps are being taken by the UGC. 
She talks in detail about the UGC measures for ensuring gender equity in universities 
and colleges. She details the work of the Task Force Committee set up by UGC in view 
of the increasing numbers of incidents of violence against women. The Task Force 
Committee is not only looking into ways to ensure safety for women in these institutions 
but also ways of bringing about changes in perception through gender sensitization at 
every level in higher education. The Committee will suggest measures to bring about 
greater sensitivity to issues of gender. Further the Committee is also evaluating the 
existing infrastructures and systems in place to ensure gender equity on campuses. 
In order to do this the Committee has a designed a questionnaire which she herself 
Page | 132
has been responsible for sending to over twelve-hundred universities in the eastern 
region. She went on to speak in some detail about the sections in the questionnaire. 
She adds that there is a suggestion that gender sensitivity be ensured even at the level 
of recruiting faculty and non-teaching staff members of higher education institutions. 
However, she also feels that cognitive training for gender awareness and sensitivity 
should start much before individuals start their undergraduate studies. And in fact, 
many individuals actually do not come into the ambit of higher education. Therefore, 
from pre-teen years focus should be given on retraining perceptions about gender. 
Further, she sees the role of gender sensitization in higher education as crucial because 
young undergraduate students can be the ‘army of volunteers’ to reach out to and 
educate the masses.
Ishita Mukherjee speaks next saying that the purpose of this dialogue is to 
critically look at our campuses. For instance, it has been quite a long time since certain 
guidelines like the Visakha Guidelines have been enacted or come into force. Yet many 
institutions might not still have necessary infrastructure
in place. She feels that Complaints’ Committees (where they exist) must be 
complemented by concrete gender sensitization programme to holistically address 
gender inequity. Further, Complaints Committee itself functions post facto, as it 
were, and preventive measure, particularly through awareness raising is crucial. She 
points to other hazy areas that such committees can/ cannot deal with: for instance, 
when harassment of students take place outside the jurisdiction of the university/ 
college campus. She gives an example of the Rajabajar Science College where the 
students and faculty were joined by many participants from neighbouring institutions 
of higher education to effectively protest against harassment faced by girl students 
outside the campus. The protest forced the police to take action. She names a few 
other colleges where such complaints have been very effectively dealt with such as 
Gurudas College and Monindra Chandra College under the Calcutta University and 
St. Xavier’s University. Ishita Mukherjee also stressed the importance of sensitizing 
the staff. So overall she felt an integrated policy would best answer all the needs. Each 
UGC ordinance should holistically connect to previous ones so that each cell/ activity/
monitoring become interlinked and organically connected. She shares some of the 
particular difficulties she has faced for instance in the putting up of stationary posters 
Page | 133
according to UGC guidelines. She feels that the Women’s Studies undergraduate 
course has facilitated discussions on gender issues with students. The next step would 
be starting these discussions with faculty, maybe with the help of organistaions that 
are experienced in conducting such workshops and training such as Ebong Alap.
The next speaker Sarmistha Dutta Gupta contextualizes the thought behind 
organizing the present dialogue. Ebong Alap has been working consistently on 
gender issues among students, staff and parents particularly among those who are 
marginalized due to geographical location, economic conditions and lack of access 
to the English language. Ebong Alap workshops are designed as a reaction to 
contemporary situations and happenings. Therefore workshops make people relate 
discussions to everyday realities. She also mentions some of the books published 
by Ebong Alap in lucid, conversational Bangla to aid the dissemination of ideas 
about gender, globalization, communalism, etc. However, gender has been a main 
component irrespective of what the books are talking about. She details some work 
Ebong Alap has been doing with school students, teachers, parents and others in a 
remote island in the Sunderbans.
She feels the need to underscore gender issues as relevant to both boys as well as 
girls through appropriate modules. Her experience shows that classroom interactions, 
even if they are classes explicitly on gender studies, often do not give enough 
opportunities to the students and teachers to address everyday issues that arise from 
gender inequity. And this is where, she feels, an NGO like Ebong Alap has a role 
to play in facilitating conversations through workshops, discussions, film screenings 
and so on. In order to do that Ebong Alap needs to have conversations with teachers 
and faculty about the needs of the students, which then is why such a workshop is 
of paramount importance. The recent incidents of violence against women, sharply 
underscored the need for gender sensitization, among young people in particular. 
In fact, a lot of young women, she feels, are losing confidence in an environment of 
continued violations and inaction on part of the police and administration. In this 
context, specifically arising out of concerns about issues of gender equity, the UGC 
formed a Task Force in January. Sarmistha Dutta Gupta asserts that this is possibly the 
first time such a colloquium has happened since the Task Force was set up. She ends 
her speech with hope for a lively and fruitful discussion among all.
Page | 134
Jasodhara Bagchi felt that without discussions and exchanges, issues of gender 
will not flourish. She feels that ‘complaints cell’ is a misnomer and that efforts should 
be directed at establishing, like in Jadavpur University, counselling cells. She gave 
examples from advertisements that use gender stereotyping and advocated discussions 
to raise awareness as opposed to using censorship. She felt that Womens’ Studies 
should not remain limited, rigid and atrophy. She saw a clear role for Ebong Alap here 
as it engages with evolving ideas and brings people together through discussions. She 
ended with a quote from Kamla Bhasin which says that the wall should be modified 
into a bridge to give a fitting reply.
Fourth Session: Presentation by Ebong Alap
Mukul Mukherjee starts by saying how the shared experiences of the teachers has 
been enriching and thought provoking. She says that problems of attitudinal change 
can only be addressed by addressing deep-seated prejudices. And ultimately the 
starting point has to be the familial sphere where such things are addressed from 
early stages.
Sarmistha Dutta Gupta broadly outlines the work of EA which works with students 
who are marginalized in terms of their location, their access to English language, their 
economic backgrounds and so on which also therefore makes it difficult for them to 
access contemporary debates on gender, globalization and communalism. EA works 
through workshops and in recent years they have focused exclusively on gender 
issues particularly pertaining to conceptual clarity on gender and sexuality. One of 
the focuses has been on constructions of femininity and masculinity to address the 
oft-asked question about the relevance of gender issues for men. Recognizing the 
immense importance of making gender relevant for boys and girls, the Ebong Alap 
team is mixed in terms of gender and it always tries to get colleges/schools to enroll a 
mixed group of students for the workshops.
EA prefers the format of workshops as opposed to seminars or lecture for 
knowledge dissemination because it does not remain limited to a fixed hierarchy 
between the facilitators and the participants. Another way EA facilitates discussion 
among participants is by showing films/clips and calling on participants to give their 
Page | 135
reactions. For example, EA has conducted a film festival on the theme of Women’s 
Work and Gender in a school in Sunderban where they have been working for some 
time. The films were Mahanagar (dir: Satyajit Ray), Adalat O Ekti Meye (Dir: Tapan 
Sinha) and Ekdin Protiodin (dir: Mrinal Sen). Ebong Alap also has powerpoints in 
Bangla on many related topics. Within workshops there are also group discussions 
—participants are divided into groups and given newspaper clipping which they then 
have to discuss.
Since many college teachers noted that there was a lack of engagement on the 
part of students with WS, she feels that Ebong Alap can play a positive role here as 
students might be less intimidated to open up to facilitators who are not teachers and 
therefore do not exercise control over them. Young people lack safe spaces to talk about 
their bodies and sexuality. Ebong Alap facilitators often personalize the workshops 
through their own life experiences which helps people to open up. However, no two 
workshops are alike. Everything is modified based on contextual realities including 
location, age of participants, etc.
The next Ebong Alap member to speak is Rangan Chakravarty. He comments on 
the questionnaire developed by the UGC Task Force. The questionnaire is divided 
into three broad sections: physical infrastructure (as with questions about adequate 
lighting), administrative infrastructure and gender training. The last is very important 
as it trains the mind, trains perceptions. Gender orientation is very important family 
level but also among administrative level and among the faculty of an institution of 
higher education. Patriarchy is not equivalent to men. It’s a larger system within which 
there has to be, he feels, many small revolutions. In this day and age of globalization 
market forces have been instrumental in mainstreaming certain patriarchal values and 
universalizing them. Students and young people have to be equipped with teleological 
and conceptual tools that will better enable to critically examine these things.
Having worked in the field of development and gender, Rangan Chakravarty 
feels that workshops are usually designed in a ‘one size fits all’ format. Further, 
dissemination through seminars is also one­sided. But Ebong Alap works through 
the workshop format and the workshops constantly evolve. Since the common 
perception is that gender is only for women, there was need to develop material for 
men. Male insecurity and anxiety is increasing especially around the large number 
Page | 136
of women entering the public sphere through jobs. This male anxiety needs to be 
factored into any discussions on gender. One of the projects should be to create a 
Gender Reader in Bangla.
Mukul Mukherjee stresses the importance of taking awareness to the right places 
and welcomes the idea of a gender reader. She feels many students who are not English-
savvy will benefit immensely from it. She then invites Ruchira Goswami to speak.
Ruchira Goswami introduces herself as a faculty of National University of Juridical 
Sciences as well as a member of Ebong Alap. The mixed gender nature of Ebong Alap 
is a source of great strength, she believes. She relates the experience of conducting a 
workshop on gender and sexuality with middle-aged women where one male member 
of Ebong Alap, Aveek Sen, was also present as a facilitator. Although they perceived 
that this might be a barrier, it led to very interesting and frank discussions.
One other strength of Ebong Alap, Ruchira feels is their work as a team which 
strategises together and comes up with modules together. The workshop approach 
of Ebong Alap maintains continuity. It is not like seminars where several different 
delinked presenters talk about different topics. Instead, Ebong Alap forges links 
between the sessions, between the speakers and between workshops. While the 
workshops are designed to be better fit contextually, they are also a learning process. 
So that what is learnt in a workshop with rural youngsters can then be discussed with 
urban students she teaches. In fact, while urban students can be more aware of certain 
gender issues they can also be equally at sea as their rural counterparts when it comes 
to certain other issues.
Where institutions are interested, it is easy to maintain a process of dialogue with 
Ebong Alap and for the organization to maintain continuity. It is important for Ebong 
Alap to get feedback from colleges. Workshops should benefit not only students but 
also the faculty. Therefore, this forum is a very good place to start this process of 
dialogues with institutions.
The next speaker, Aveek Sen, says that ideas of workshops also come from the 
members’ experiences. For instance, in teaching Othello by Shakespeare to a group 
of students in Presidency college at a time when the city was seeing a lot of agitation 
over the death of Rizwanur Rahman in 2007, gave them the idea to start a series of 
Page | 137
workshops on ‘The Freedom to Choose One’s Partner’. Therefore, such discussions can 
be started through teaching. One of the first workshops in this series was conducted in 
Jadavpur University by Ebong Alap where students from a number institutions, both 
urban and rural, had come. The workshop did see a lot of discussion by undergraduate 
students on freedom of choice in sexual relationships. Aveek Sen also feels that it was 
much easier to discuss negative aspects of sexuality than talking about the positive 
aspects such as pleasure. The punitive and the puritanical come much more easily 
to us. And there is need to be careful about assumptions behind certain controlling 
measures, the tone and language used.
Fifth Session: Roundtable discussion on the recent UGC questionnaire
Chair: Prof. Jasodhara Bagchi
Jasodhara Bagchi felt that the discussion should not only look into the questionnaire but 
also look at contextual problems that are there. The questionnaire can be downloaded 
from the website and sent to UGC, she informs all discussants. Many teachers present 
attest that the questionnaire has not been circulated in their institutions.
It was suggested that the questionnaire should see women’s presence in institutions 
of higher education more holistically and positively and broaden their approach from 
a focus on safety of women on campus to their general well-being.
All discussant agree that the question ‘have you received complaints’ should 
be expanded to include what kinds of complaints and why. A question on ‘what 
provisions do you have for the well being of students’ should be included. Among 
provisions suggested are spaces where STI and HIV/ AIDS related advice can be 
given to students as well as installing condom vending machines. Instead of focusing 
on ‘safety’ the approach should be more positive. There should be a question on sports 
and recreation facilities on the campus and the access of female students to these.
Section two should be on infrastructure and the questions rephrased so that 
just a yes/no answer cannot be given and more details can be provided. Among 
infrastructural facilities, a creche and day care centre and centre to address issues of 
students with disabilities should be included.
Page | 138
Just talking about safety is insidious as all sorts of disciplinary and punitive 
measures can be taken which will actually curtail the mobility and freedom of women 
on campus. Moreover, the questionnaire needs to asks about Complaints’ committees’ 
role in gender sensitization. There should be questions on awareness generation and 
dissemination of information that the committees are also supposed to undertake. 
Also, discussants bring up the issue of self-sensitization of the committee/cell 
particularly in handling alternative sexualities. Couselling Cells and Health Units 
must also be sensitized to issues of gender and sexuality. The sensitization of teachers 
and administrative staff must be made compulsory especially and linked to career 
advancement and promotions. The need for a compulsory, marked project on gender 
by all students across disciplines is also reiterated.
On the whole, it was strongly suggested that gender sensitization should not be 
seen as disaster management but as an integral part of an enjoyable campus life which 
girls and boys cherish. This involves an understanding of the burden of ‘common sense’ 
that each of us brings to the institution as also the assumptions that the institution 
implicitly stands for.
The colloquium closes with a word of thanks from the chair Jasodhara Bagchi.
Page | 139
Appendix 9
Note on Masculinities
Prof. Sanjay Srivastava 
Delhi University
Gender norms and categories are directly related to the distribution of power among 
genders, and hence to issues of social justice, equity and human rights. ‘Power’, in turn, 
relates to the control over both symbolic as well as material goods. That is, the ideas we 
hold about men and women - their ‘appropriate’ roles, capacities, and characteristics 
- along with the access they enjoy to material resources go towards determining their 
positions with respect to each other. Hence, both symbolic and material processes 
are of crucial importance when we plan upon affecting changes in oppressive social 
structures and conditions. All social contexts are gendered, and the gendered nature 
of social contexts ‘means that neither male nor female power can be examined entirely 
in isolation’ (Malhotra and Mather 1997:603). ‘Gender’ is, therefore, a relationship.
Hence, the study of feminine, masculine and trans-gender identities concerns the 
exploration of power relationships within the contemporary gender landscape, where 
certain dominant ideals of manhood impact on women, different ways of being men, 
as well those identities that may not fit either gender category. This way of engaging 
with ‘gender’ is an exploration into the taken-for-granted category of ‘man’.
Masculinity refers to the socially produced but embodied ways of being male. Its 
manifestations include manners of speech, behaviour, gestures, social interaction, 
a division of tasks ‘proper’ to men and women (‘men work in offices, women do 
housework’), and an overall narrative that positions it as superior to its perceived 
antithesis, femininity. The discourse of masculinity as a dominant and ‘superior’ 
gender position is produced at a number of sites and has specific consequences for 
women as well as those men who may not fit into the dominant and valourised 
models of masculinity. These sites include: customary laws and regulations, the state 
and its mechanisms, the family, religious norms and sanctions, popular culture, and, 
the media. The mass media is one of the most important means for the transmission, 
Page | 140
circulation and reception of local and global masculine identities. With the rise of new 
technologies of media and communication, representations of masculinities find both 
local and global anchoring. In this sense, the media becomes a transformative force 
field with a capacity to change structures of belief.
In order to stand in a relationship of superiority to feminine identity, masculinity 
must be represented as possessing characteristics that are the binary opposite of (actual 
or imagined) feminine identity. However, this is not all. Dominant masculinity stands 
in a relationship not just to femininity but also to those ways of being male that are seen 
to deviate from the ideal. It is in this sense that masculinity possesses both external 
(relating to women) as well as an internal (relating to ‘other’ men) characteristics. It 
is also for this reason that we speak of masculinities rather than masculinity (in the 
singular). It is important, however, to remember that ‘masculinity’ and ‘femininity’ 
are not simply opposite and equal categories, such that (as is frequently said) ‘each 
has its own sphere of activity’. Rather, each stands in a hierarchical relationship to the 
other and the ‘feminine’ acts as complement to the masculine, defined in a manner 
that produces masculine identity as a superior one.
There is also the need to differentiate the linked ideas of ‘patriarchy’ and 
‘masculinity’. Patriarchy refers to a system of social organization which is fundamentally 
organised around the idea of men’s superiority to women. Within this system, even 
those who may not approximate to the male ideal (such as homosexual men) still 
stand to benefit from the privileges attached to being a man. So, as a parallel, we 
might think of the situation on apartheid era South Africa where all whites - those 
who supported apartheid and those who opposed it - were potential beneficiaries of 
the institutionalised privileges of being white. Though it is difficult to posit simple 
definitions of ‘patriarchy’ and ‘masculinity’, we might say that patriarchy refers to 
the systemic relationship of power between men and women, whereas masculinity 
concerns both inter and intra-gender relationships. And, while it cannot be argued 
that under patriarchy all forms of masculinity are equally valourised (consider the 19th 
and 20th histories of upper- caste masculinities versus Dalit masculinities, for example) 
there is nevertheless an overwhelming consensus regarding the superiority of men 
over women. Patriarchy ‘makes’ men superior, whereas masculinity is the process of 
producing superior men.
Page | 141
The ideas of ‘making’ and ‘producing’ are crucial to the study of gender identities, 
for they point to their historical and social nature. The gigantic archive of ‘proper’ 
masculine behaviour - in novels, films, advertisements, and folk-advice - would 
clearly be unnecessary if it was a naturally endowed characteristic. The very fact that 
masculinity must consistently be reinforced - ‘if you buy this motor­cycle you’ll be a 
real man’ - says something about the tenuous and fragile nature of gender identities; 
they must continually be reinforced. Following from this, we might also say that 
masculinity is enacted rather than expressed. For, when we say that something is 
‘expressed’, we are working with the idea that it ‘already exists’, and gender identities 
in particular do not already exist (say, biologically). There is an entire task of building 
and rebuilding, consolidation, representation, and enforcement; in other words we 
must think of gender identities as works in progress.
A crucial task in the study of masculinities concerns the foregrounding of the 
social nature of gender identities and simultaneously exploration of the possibilities 
of interventions. When we speak of ‘gender’, we are speaking of social and cultural 
attributes within human society. This approach moves away from the biologism that 
has historically been part of the study of gender and sexual identities. Biologism is the 
thinking that suggests that gender and sexual identities:
•	
are biologically derived
•	
have been historically stable (i.e. the same since the ‘dawn of time’)
•	
are ‘essentially’ about our ‘private’ lives, and,
•	
are ‘basically’ the same across different cultures
•	
are normative.
To imagine identities and behaviours as socially and historically constituted is also 
to imagine the possibility of effecting change in a desired direction. For, if masculine 
identities vary across time and space - appear in different forms at different times and 
are different across societies - therein lies the possibility of formulating appropriate 
policy measures and programmes and projects to influence the contexts within which 
gender inequalities persist.
Page | 142
Globalisation, Development and Masculinities
Globalisation has been understood in different ways. However, most people agree 
that it is about living in a more interconnected world with a definite economic, social 
and cultural process. Economically it is referred to as the reduction and removal of 
barriers between national borders in order to facilitate the flow of goods, capital, 
services and labour. Socially and culturally it connects us through the availability 
of goods, food, entertainment and information that are produced in any part of the 
globe to be consumed in any other. Even local work and jobs are dependent on the 
shifts in the global economy. In this scenario relations between men and women are 
rapidly changing and gender relations are being redefined. This section will build an 
understanding of how global processes have a bearing on individuals, families and 
communities living in different parts of south Asia.
Customs, Religion and Masculinities
The formation of identities through religion and cultures of masculinity is a prevalent 
feature of the region. Religious solidarities are often mobilized through appeals to 
a shared masculinity. The public expression of religious symbols is the background 
against which political formations take shape. The manner of expression of these 
symbols privileges the issue of gender by linking it to the gendering of the nation, i.e. 
how national identity and gender become linked contexts. Contemporary religiosity, 
whose contours are more mobile and unpredictable than before, has revealed itself 
to be one of the most decisive factors in the constitution of all cultural identity. The 
one element that this religiosity shows is the crucial importance of congregations 
in maintaining itself and disseminating its message. Almost all these congregations 
(mainly communities of men) are tied together by ideas of sacrifice, martyrdom, 
altruistic suicide. A focus on the making of congregations helps us understand how 
masculine identities might be constructed through ideas of socio-cultural differences, 
and how cultural differences inhibit the processes of socio-cultural integration.
The nostalgia for a culturally homogeneous society, for a strict separation between 
men and women in the public, for a close and literal reading of canonical texts, 
Page | 143
affects not only the possibilities of public dissent, but also supplies the normative 
basis of cultural separatism. The move towards homogeneity is made through the 
vehicle of religious symbols and it becomes important to investigate the scope of 
such symbols.
A recurrent feature of south Asian cultures is the expression of ethno-nationalism 
based on the forging of a homogeneous cultural identity. Expressions of ethnic 
nationalism and linguistic identities are also accompanied with a pervasive collective 
violence and the cult of charisma. Without exception, the leadership of such movements 
draws its inspiration from an appeal to a mythic past based on masculinised cultures. 
The region offers a variety of ethnic movements informed by a series of primordial 
loyalties.
While ethnic movements seem at odds with the secular consensus of modern 
states, they also force us to acknowledge that membership to a group can be premised 
upon an adherence to customary law. Across Asia, the resurfacing of customs that 
were thought to have been superseded by civil law shows the resilient character 
of local traditions. Whatever the cultural contents and variations of such customs, 
the one common factor that they express is that of restrictions to be placed upon 
women and the role of men as arbiters. The asymmetrical effect of such custom 
upon men and women needs to be mapped, especially its authorizing of gender 
based violence.
One of the main justifications of male violence against women is the ‘cultural 
rights’ argument, variously posed in the idiom of honor, shame, and the maintenance 
of solidarity networks. In some societies in Asia, cultural rights have been enshrined 
as ‘customary’ law, while in others, honour and shame have been replaced by 
civil procedures of restitution. To trace the complexities of ethnic violence and its 
persistence over time, a comparative understanding of the custom of ethnic group 
solidarity would be of invaluable help in delineating cultures of violence.
Media and Masculinities
Mass media is perhaps the most important means for the transmission, circulation 
and reception of local and global gender identities. With the rise of new technologies 
Page | 144
of media and communications, representations of gender - feminine, masculine and 
ones that don’t fit this binary - come to be represented in complex ways. Further, 
media representations of gender are one of the most significant ways in which social 
and cultural norms regarding gender are both circulated as well as transformed. 
Irrespective of the regional context, globalization as a backdrop is fundamental to the 
ways in which contemporary gender identities are produced and negotiated. However, 
though new forms of media - satellite television and the internet, for example, - play an 
active role in circulating representations of masculinities, these also draw upon longer 
cultural histories, memories, and experiences. The sheer pervasiveness of the media as 
a purveyor of information and entertainment makes it imperative to understand the 
ways in which it constructs representations of gender, as well as how these intersect 
with contexts such as class, religion, caste and ethnicity.
Institutions and Masculinities
The idea that the public sphere is a ‘masculinized’ one is the starting point for exploring 
the relationship between gender and the functioning and structure of institutions. Here, 
the kinds of questions we need to explore include: How is gender power consolidated 
through civic associations such as clubs and societies that, either implicitly or explicitly, 
base themselves upon masculinist ideologies? How are the conjoined contexts of 
patriarchal privilege and masculinist ideals normalized through public institutions such 
as state bureaucracies, schools, the legal system and the police? The historic division of 
social life as ‘public’ and ‘private’ has simultaneously entailed a division of institution 
as public and private. And, along with this, there has developed logic of - what might be 
called - the gender of such institutions. Hence, according to this logic, public institutions 
have been understood to be the ‘natural’ preserve of men and hence have tended to 
operate according to a variety of masculinist ideologies. One example of this is that the 
media quite often provides accounts of public women through describing what they 
wear, or, how many children they have. Beyond this, there are even more serious issues, 
such as the denial of equal opportunities to women through masculinity notions of what 
men can do and what women are capable. It becomes important, therefore, to explore 
the gender of our institutions in order to devise strategies if change.
Page | 145
Patriarchy, Masculinity and Sexuality
While patriarchy socially embeds the disprivileging of women as a group, masculinity 
is the process by which the hierarchy of gender orders is maintained. Amongst other 
things masculinities has often been described as a policing mechanism that maintains 
social hierarchies not only between women and men but also between men on the 
basis of class, caste, culture, religion, sexuality, etc.
Since masculinity is not simply a biological state but an unstable process and a 
state that has to constantly striven towards, it is inherently unstable. This instablility 
means that men have to constantly prove their manhood in various social spheres 
including their sexual lives. Performance therefore becomes the cornerstone of men’s 
sexual practices and yet another arena that men have to negotiate within the context 
of experiencing power.
Organisations for Workshops on Masculinities
There are a number of groups and individuals around the country that have well 
developed workshops that explore cultures of masculinity1. They are carried out with 
the full awareness that there are no magical ‘cures’ for changing attitudes towards 
gender, and that what is important is to introduce and reinforce ideas regarding 
masculinities that are based upon feminist principles. Such programmes explore topics 
such as ‘Histories of masculinities’, ‘The media and masculinities’, ‘Masculinities and 
violence’, Masculinities and institutions’ and ‘Masculinities and sexualities’.
The involvement of organizations such as the Center for Health and Social Justice 
(CHSJ), Men Against Violence Towards Women (MAVAW), South Asian Network 
to Address Masculinities (SANAM) and Forum to Engage Men (FEM) in regular 
workshops sessions at universities across the country should be considered. Such 
workshops could form part of a university’s extra-curricular schedule, without any 
element of compulsion.
1 Sanjay Srivastava, “Masculinity and its Role in Gender-based Violence in Public Spaces”. Centre for 
Equity and Inclusion, 2012
Page | 146
Recently, some universities have taken the lead in broadening the idea of gender 
as a relationship between men, women and other genders. These universities have 
included specific courses on masculinities in their gender studies programmes at the 
post-graduate level. The UGC could consider a formal mechanism through which 
feminist understanding of the cultures of masculinities forms part of gender studies 
curricula at universities. There is now a sufficient body of work on the topic which 
can be drawn upon. SANAM has developed teaching materials for university level 
participants. However, there is lack of resources of this kind in languages other 
than English and the UGC could sponsor either original works or translations of 
appropriate material.
Page | 147
Appendix 10
Rules and Procedures of the Gender Sensitization Committee against
JAWAHARLAL NEHRU UNIVERSITY
Rules and Procedures of the Gender Sensitization Committee against 
Sexual Harassment (GSCASH)
I.	
BACKGROUND OF THE RULES AND PROCEDURES
These are the Rules and Procedures of the Gender Sensitization Committee against 
Sexual Harassment, which is the body constituted by Jawaharlal Nehru University, 
New Delhi (vide the Notification dated 16 April 1999), on the recommendations of the 
Working Group on Sexual Harassment, headed by Prof. Karuna Chanana, appointed 
by the Vice-Chancellor on September
1997. This body shall implement the Jawaharlal Nehru University Policy Against 
Sexual Harassment (vide the Circular dated 25 February 1999 - Schedule 1) as also the 
guidelines laid down by the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India, in its ruling on the Writ 
Petition (Criminal) Vishaka vs. State of Rajasthan on 13 August 1997, on the prevention 
and deterrence of sexual harassment at the workplace. The Hon’ble Supreme Court 
in a subsequent judgment titled Apparel Export Promotion Council vs A. K. Chopra, 
on 20th January, 1999 has reiterated that incidents of sexual harassment violate 
fundamental rights to gender equality and right to life and liberty. It may be pointed 
out that although these Rules and Procedures follow the spirit of the above mentioned 
judgments, they cover a wider spectrum of sexual harassment in consonance with the 
requirements of an institution of higher education.
Page | 148
II.	
DEFINITION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT
Sexual harassment in this context, (as is described in the Supreme Court Judgment, and 
the JNU Policy), includes any unwelcome sexually determined behaviour, whether 
directly or by implication, and includes physical contact and advances, a demand or 
request for sexual favours, sexually coloured remarks, showing pornography, and 
other unwelcome physical, verbal or non­verbal conduct of a sexual nature. It shall 
include, but will not be confined to, the following:
a.	
When unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favours, and verbal or 
physical conduct of a sexual nature, explicitly or implicitly, are made a term of 
condition of instruction, employment, participation, or evaluation of a person’s 
engagement in any academic or campus activity.
b.	
When unwelcome sexual advances and verbal, non-verbal, or physical conduct 
such as loaded comments, slander, remarks or jokes, letters, phone calls or e-mail, 
gestures, showing of pornography, lurid stares, physical contact or molestation, 
stalking, sounds or display of a derogatory nature have the purpose or effect 
of interfering with an individual’s performance or of creating an intimidating, 
hostile or offensive campus environment.
III.	
OTHER DEFINITIONS
i. 	
“Academic staff” includes any person on the staff of the University who is 
appointed to a teaching and/or research post, whether full-time, temporary, ad-
hoc, part-time, visiting, honorary, or on special duty or deputation, and shall 
include employees employed on a casual or project basis. It shall not, however, 
include any such person on the staff of an autonomous institution to which 
Jawaharlal Nehru University is the authority awarding degrees.
ii.	
“Appeals Committee” as defined in Section X (3) herein.
iii.	
“Campus” includes all places of work and residence in the New Delhi campus 
of Jawaharlal Nehru University. It includes all places of instruction, research 
Page | 149
and administration, as well as hostels, guesthouses, public places and places of 
residence allotted and administered by Jawaharlal Nehru University, including 
the premises in the Jawaharlal Nehru University City Centre.
iv.	
“Complaints Screening Committee” as defined in Section VI.3(B) herein.
v.	
“Counsellor” includes any woman, empanelled by GSCASH and/or appointed 
by the University authorities, who has proven expertise in social and personal 
counselling on matters arising out of incidents of sexual harassment.
vi.	
“Eminent woman academician” includes a senior woman academician who 
is not a member of either the academic or the non-teaching staff of Jawaharlal 
Nehru University, and who has experience in working for gender equality.
vii.	 “Enquiry Committee” as defined in Section VI.4 herein.
viii.	 “GSCASH” shall refer to the Gender Sensitisation Committee against Sexual 
Harassment of the Jawaharlal Nehru University.
ix.	
“NGO” includes any Non-Governmental Organisation registered under the 
Societies’ Registration Act or as a public charitable trust recognised under law. 
Such a society/charitable trust must not be affiliated to any political party, and 
should have been engaged in work for gender equality, particularly for the 
amelioration of the status of women, for a minimum of three years prior to the 
date of empanelment. Two-thirds of the registered membership of such a society 
or charitable trust shall be outsiders with respect to Jawaharlal Nehru University; 
i.e. at least two-thirds of the membership shall not include any person who is a 
student, resident, service provider, or a member of the academic staff or non-
teaching staff of Jawaharlal Nehru University.
x.	
“Non-teaching staff” includes any person on the staff of the University who is 
not appointed to a teaching and/or research post, whether full-time, temporary, 
ad-hoc, part­time, daily wager, honorary or on special duty or deputation, and 
shall include employees employed on a casual or project basis, as also persons 
employed through a contractor. It shall not include any such person on the 
staff of an autonomous institution to which Jawaharlal Nehru University is the 
authority awarding degrees.
Page | 150
xi.	
“Outsider” includes any person who is not a student, resident, or member of 
the academic or non-teaching staff of Jawaharlal Nehru University. It shall also 
include any person who is a student, employee, service provider, or resident of 
any autonomous institution that has its premises/residences in the Jawaharlal 
Nehru University campus.
xii.	 “The Policy” shall refer to the Jawaharlal Nehru University Policy against Sexual 
Harassment, as notified in the Circular dated 25 February 1999 (Schedule 1).
xiii.	 “Resident” includes any person who is a temporary or permanent resident of 
any of the accommodations or premises managed and/or allotted by Jawaharlal 
Nehru University, irrespective of whether he/she is the person to whom the 
accommodation is officially allotted. It shall not include any such person who is 
in temporary or permanent residence in the campus of an autonomous institution 
to which Jawaharlal Nehru University is the authority awarding degrees. It shall 
also not include any person who is in temporary or permanent residence in an 
autonomous institution that has its premises and/ or residences in the Jawaharlal 
Nehru University campus.
xiv.	 “Service provider” includes any person who runs or manages commercial 
enterprises, or provides services, on the campus. It includes, but is not limited 
to, persons working in shops, canteens, hostels and restaurants on the campus, 
as well as persons working in premises allotted on the campus, such as the 
shopping complexes, Delhi Vidyut Board, Department of Posts & Telegraph, 
State Bank of India, Kendriya Bhandar, Mahanagar Telephone Nigam Ltd., DTC, 
CGHS, and any other such similar services.
xv.	
“Student” includes any person who is enrolled for any course, whether full 
time or part time, with Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi and includes 
an undergraduate or postgraduate student, a Research Scholar, a visitor, and a 
repeater. It also includes a student of another University or college who has been 
placed or has opted for placement with Jawaharlal Nehru University or short-
term courses at Jawaharlal Nehru University. It shall not, however, include any 
student enrolled in a course in an autonomous institution to which Jawaharlal 
Nehru University is the authority awarding degrees.
Page | 151
xvi.	 “Supreme Court Judgement” shall refer to the guidelines on the prevention and 
deterrence of sexual harassment in the workplace laid down by the Supreme 
Court of India on 13 August 1997 in its ruling on the Writ Petition (Criminal) 
Vishaka vs. State of Rajasthan and the judgment titled Apparel Export romotion 
Council vs. A. K. Chopra, on 20th January 1999.
xvii.	 “Third party” shall include the NGO representative or the eminent woman 
academic serving on, or empanelled by, GSCASH.
xviii.	“University authorities” shall refer to the Vice-Chancellor of Jawaharlal Nehru 
University, by virtue of her/his being the head of the Executive Council 
of Jawaharlal Nehru University, as well as any such person to whom such 
power may be delegated such as the Rector(s), and/or any person who is 
entrusted with any powers and functions to act on behalf of the University 
under the Jawaharlal Nehru University Act 1969, or Statutes, Ordinances or 
Rules thereunder. For faculty members and group ‘A’ officers, the appropriate 
University authority is the Executive Council, and for students and other 
employees, it is the Vice-Chancellor.
xix.	 “University functionaries” includes any person appointed, designated or 
nominated by the University authorities to a position of service in Jawaharlal 
Nehru University, and includes, but is not limited only to, the following:
	
Dean of Students, Deans of Schools, Chairpersons of Centres, Proctors, 
Provosts, wardens, security personnel, health professionals, as well as 
persons discharging administrative responsibilities, such as the Registrar 
and the Finance Officer.
xx.	
“Vacations” shall refer to the periods May 13 to July 21 and December 6 to 
January 5.
xxi.	 “Vacations Committee” as defined in Section V.11 herein.
xxii.	 “Warden” shall refer to any person, who is nominated, appointed, or designated 
by the Vice-Chancellor as a Warden of a hostel allotted and/or administered by 
Jawaharlal Nehru University.
Page | 152
IV.	
SHORT TITLE AND SCOPE
These Rules and Procedures of the Jawaharlal Nehru University Gender Sensitisation 
Committee Against Sexual Harassment will be called the Rules and Procedures of 
GSCASH. The provisions of these Rules and Procedures of GSCASH shall apply to all 
students, academic staff, and non­teaching staff on active rolls of the Jawaharlal Nehru 
University, New Delhi, as also to residents, service providers, and outsiders who may 
be within the territory of JNU at the time of commission of the act attracting GSCASH 
Rules, on the Jawaharlal Nehru University campus, to the extent specified in these 
Rules and Procedures.
These rules and procedures shall be applicable to all complaints of sexual harassment 
made:
IV (i) By a student against a member of the academic or non-teaching staff or a costudent; 
or by a member of the academic or non-teaching staff against a student or another 
member of the academic or non-teaching staff; in either case, irrespective of whether 
sexual harassment is alleged to have taken place within or outside the campus.
IV (ii) By a resident against a student or a member of the academic or non-teaching 
staff or made by a student or a member of the academic or non-teaching staff against 
a resident, irrespective of whether sexual harassment is alleged to have taken place 
within or outside the campus.
IV (iii) By a service provider or an outsider against a student or a member of the 
academic or non-teaching staff or made by a student or a member of the academic or 
non­teaching staff against an outsider or a service provider, if the sexual harassment is 
alleged to have taken place within the campus.
V.	
COMPOSITION AND PROCEDURES OF GSCASH
V.1. Composition
GSCASH shall have a membership of fifteen persons, of which at least half the 
members shall be women. The composition of these members is given below while 
Page | 153
the bodies, which shall elect or nominate these members are given in the next 
section.
V.1 (i) Two faculty members (at least one woman) specially elected to serve on 
GSCASH.
V.1 (ii) Two students (at least one woman) specially elected to serve on GSCASH.
V.1 (iii) One woman officer and one woman staff member specially elected to serve 
on GSCASH.
V.1 (iv) Two Wardens (at least one woman)
V.1 (v) One representative each of the Jawaharlal Nehru University Students’ Union 
(JNUSU), Jawaharlal Nehru University Teachers’ Association (JNUTA), Jawaharlal 
Nehru University Staff Association (JNUSA) and Jawaharlal Nehru University 
Officers’ Association (JNUOA).
V.1 (vi) One eminent woman academician from outside the University.
V.1 (vii) One woman representative of an NGO.
V.1 (viii) One woman counsellor.
V.2. The Process for Formation of GSCASH
V. 2 (i) The election for the specially elected representatives of students, teachers, staff, 
and officers (those referred to in Sections V.1 (i) - (iii) above) shall be conducted by 
the bodies responsible for conducting the elections to the Executives of the respective 
Unions and Associations. The electoral procedure shall be completed by the month of 
December each year.
V. 2 (ii) The representatives of the Wardens (those referred to in Section V.1 (iv) 
above) shall be chosen by the Wardens under Inter-Hall Administration (JNU) and 
will assume office by March each year.
V. 2 (iii) The representatives of the Jawaharlal Nehru University Students’ Union, 
Jawaharlal Nehru University Teachers’ Association, Jawaharlal Nehru University 
Officers’ Association and Jawaharlal Nehru University Staff Association (referred to 
in Section V.1 (v) above) shall be nominated by the respective Executive Committees, 
and they will assume office by January each year.
Page | 154
V.2 (iv) GSCASH shall empanel a pool of counsellors, eminent women academicians, 
and NGOs, as defined in Section III. (v), (vi) and (ix), respectively. However, only one 
NGO representative, one eminent woman academician and one counsellor shall be 
invited by GSCASH to attend its meeting at one time.
V.2 (v) The panel of NGOs, eminent women academicians, and counsellors, shall be 
updated by GSCASH from time to time. GSCASH will strive to maintain continuity in 
the membership of third party members and counsellors on GSCASH. A decision to 
remove from the panel a serving or empanelled third party or counsellor shall only be 
taken in a Special meeting defined in Section V.10 (vi).
V.3. Term of Office of GSCASH Members
Subject to Section V.5 below and barring the third parties and the counsellor, the tenure 
of each member of GSCASH shall be twelve months from the date of assumption of 
office.
V.4. Chairperson/Acting Chairperson of GSCASH
The Chairperson of GSCASH shall be a woman faculty member, and shall be elected by 
the members of GSCASH from amongst themselves. In the event of the Chairperson of 
GSCASH being unable to discharge her duties for a period exceeding 21 days (barring 
the period when the University is on vacation), GSCASH shall designate from amongst 
its members, a woman faculty member to the post of Acting Chairperson of GSCASH 
for that period. The Acting Chairperson of GSCASH shall have all the powers and 
duties of the Chairperson of GSCASH outlined herein. As and when the Chairperson 
resumes duty, the Acting Chairperson shall cease to hold office.
V.5. Disqualification of Chairperson and Members
A person shall be disqualified for being appointed, elected, nominated or designated 
as, or for being continued as, a member of GSCASH if there is any complaint concerning 
sexual harassment pending against her/him, or if she/he has been found guilty of 
sexual harassment/serious misconduct.
Page | 155
V.6. Disqualification of an NGO
A person shall be disqualified for being appointed, elected, nominated or designated 
as, or for being continued as, an NGO representative on GSCASH if such appointment, 
nomination, designation, election or continuation is inconsistent with the provisions 
of Section III.ix.
V.7. Vacancy of a Member Owing to Absence without Intimation
If a member elected or nominated or designated to GSCASH remains absent without 
written intimation to the GSCASH from three consecutive meetings, her/his office 
shall thereupon become vacant.
V.8. Resignation of a Member
A member of GSCASH may resign her/his office at any time by tendering her/his 
resignation in writing to the Chairperson of GSCASH. Such a person shall be deemed 
to have vacated her/his office as soon as GSCASH has accepted the resignation.
V.9. Filling a Vacancy in GSCASH
If a vacancy arises in GSCASH, GSCASH shall coordinate with the relevant body to 
arrange for the filling up of the vacancy in the particular category, in accordance with the 
procedure outlined in Section V.2, within four weeks, barring the period during which 
the University is on vacation. If the vacancy remains unfilled after the specified period, 
the Vice-Chancellor may, in consultation with GSCASH, fill up the vacant positions by 
appropriate nominations for the residual period. No act or proceedings of GSCASH 
shall be invalidated merely by reason of the existence of a vacancy or vacancies.
V.10. Meetings of GSCASH
V.10 (i) GSCASH shall meet at least five times a semester or at such intervals as may 
be necessary provided that the interval between two successive meetings shall not 
exceed 30 days.
Page | 156
V.10 (ii) Members shall be intimated of meetings in writing or by electronic 
communication.
V.10 (iii) Minutes of all meetings shall be recorded, confirmed and adopted.
V.10 (iv) Any member of GSCASH may request the Chairperson to call an Ordinary 
Meeting. Forty-eight hours notice shall be required for such a meeting to be called. 
The quorum for an Ordinary Meeting shall be one-third of the existing members of 
GSCASH. Motions shall be carried by a simple majority of those present and voting.
V.10 (v) Any member of GSCASH may request the Chairperson to call an Emergency 
Meeting. At least twenty-four hours notice shall be required for such a meeting to 
be called. The quorum for an Emergency Meeting shall be one-third of the existing 
members of GSCASH. Motions shall be carried by a simple majority of those present 
and voting.
V.10 (vi) A Special meeting shall be called by the Chairperson of GSCASH, with at 
least twenty- four hours notice. It shall have a quorum of two-thirds of the existing 
members of GSCASH, and the attendance of at least one of the third party members 
shall be mandatory. Motions shall be carried by a two-thirds majority of the members 
present and voting.
V.10 (vii) If the required quorum is not there at any meeting, such a meeting shall 
be adjourned for not more than seven working days. For the adjourned Ordinary or 
Special meetings, the required quorum shall be the same as in a regular Ordinary or 
Special meeting but for an adjourned Emergency Meeting there shall be no requirement 
of quorum.
V.10 (viii) GSCASH shall hold at least two public meetings every year where it shall 
report to the University community about its activities. Of these, at least one meeting 
shall be called specifically for the purpose of the presentation of the Annual Report of 
GSCASH.
V.11. Vacations Committee
In the period when the University is on vacation, GSCASH shall strive to ensure the 
discharge of its duties and functions, in accordance with the procedure outlined herein:
Page | 157
V.11 (i) GSCASH shall designate from within itself a Vacations Committee(s), for the 
period when the University is in vacation, of not less than five members. Not less than 
half of the members of the said Committee shall be women.
V.11 (ii) The Vacations Committee shall elect from within itself a Convener, who shall 
be a woman faculty member, and shall exercise all the powers and functions of the 
Chairperson of GSCASH outlined herein.
V.11 (iii) By May 12 and December 5 each year, GSCASH shall intimate the University 
community by public notice the contact details including telephone/mobile nos. of 
the members of the Vacations Committee.
V.11 (iv) The Vacations Committee shall designate from within itself a monthly 
Complaints Screening Committee, which shall function in accordance with the 
procedures outlined in Section 3.
V.11 (v) In the event of an enquiry proceedings being necessitated, the Vacations 
Committee shall call a Special Meeting for the constitution of an Enquiry Committee, 
in accordance with the provisions of Section VI.4.
V.11 (vi) Save for reasons that the Vacations Committee considers urgent, further 
action on the complaint shall take place after the end of a vacation, in an Emergency 
Meeting, called by the Chief Enquiry Officer/Chairperson, GSCASH within three 
working days of the commencement of the semester.
V.11 (vii) In case of a need for immediate disciplinary action, the reasons for which the 
Chief Enquiry Officer shall state in writing, the Convener of the Vacations Committee 
shall call a Special Meeting to discuss, take a decision on the recommendations of the 
Enquiry Committee, and initiate further action on the complaint, in accordance with 
the procedures outlined in Section VI.4.
V.12. Annual Report of GSCASH
As required by the Supreme Court Judgement, the University authorities shall forward 
to the government department concerned, the Annual Report of GSCASH together 
with a written report on the Action Taken by them on the recommendations of the 
GSCASH and the Appeals Committee.
Page | 158
VI.	
FUNCTIONS OF GSCASH
GSCASH shall be responsible for the implementation of the recommendations of 
the Working Group on Sexual Harassment appointed by the Vice-Chancellor on 
5 September 1997 and the Supreme Court Judgement. GSCASH shall have four 
functions:
VI.1	
Gender Sensitisation and Orientation
VI.1 (i) GSCASH will ensure the prominent publicity of the Policy in all Centres, 
Schools, Hostels, offices of administration, as well as in all public places on the campus 
such as the library, health centre, residential areas, canteens, shopping centres, etc.
VI.1 (ii) GSCASH will organize programmes for the gender sensitisation of the 
University community through workshops, seminars, posters, film shows, debates, 
skits, etc. It may enlist the help of specialized NGOs and any campus body to carry 
out these programmes.
VI.1 (iii) GSCASH will conduct at least one major activity per semester involving 
large sections of the University community.
VI.2. Crisis Management and Mediation
VI.2 (i) GSCASH will assist in the mediation of situations arising out of incidents of 
sexual harassment and sexual assault on the campus.
VI.2 (ii) GSCASH will co-ordinate with the campus security services to devise ways 
and means by which a system of crisis management that is gender-sensitive as well 
as prompt and effective is put in place. It will maintain regular contact with the 
campus security services to ensure that in crises arising out of incidents of sexual 
harassment, GSCASH members, and/or the volunteers identified by it, shall be 
intimated without delay.
VI.2 (iii) GSCASH will, through a circular at the beginning of each semester, enlist 
and activate an adequately representative team of volunteers. GSCASH shall ensure 
the widespread publicity of the contact details (both official and personal) of all its 
members and volunteers.
Page | 159
VI.2 (iv) GSCASH will organize training workshops for members and volunteers 
to equip them to handle sexual harassment cases (including legal and medical 
aspects of aid). Volunteers will assist in the gender sensitisation, crisis mediation 
and management duties of GSCASH, but shall not participate in the task of formal 
redressal of complaints under these Rules and Procedures of GSCASH.
VI.2 (v) In cases in which sexually motivated conduct against a student, or a member of 
the academic or a non-teaching staff, or a resident and/or a service provider amounts 
to a specific offence under the Indian Penal Code or any other
Indian law, GSCASH shall assist the affected party in making a complaint to the 
appropriate authority outside the University.
VI.3 (A) Complaints Filing Process
VI.3 (A) (i) Any student, resident, service provider, outsider, or a member of the 
academic or non-teaching staff may lodge a complaint of sexual harassment against 
a student, resident, service provider, outsider, or a member of the academic or 
nonteaching staff. Third party complaints and witness complaints shall be entertained. 
The GSCASH shall take suo motto notice of grave violations of the basic principles of 
gender sensitivity and justice on this campus.
VI.3 (A) (ii) Complaints can be lodged directly with any member of GSCASH, or 
through existing channels for lodging grievances, such as the University authorities, 
wardens, teachers, students, union/association representatives, administrative 
superior, etc. If the complaint is made through any such channel, the person to whom 
the complaint is made should bring it to the notice of GSCASH within two working 
days of its receipt by her/him.
VI.3 (A) (iii) Upon receipt of the complaint, the GSCASH member to whom the 
complaint is made shall forward the same to the Complaints Screening Committee.
VI.3 (A) (iv) The complaint may be oral or in writing. If the complaint is oral, it 
shall be reduced in writing by the Complaints Screening Committee or the GSCASH 
member receiving the complaint, on Form I, prescribed for the purpose (Schedule 
2), and authenticated by the complainant under his/her dated signature or thumb 
impression as the case may be.
Page | 160
VI.3 (B) Complaints Screening Committee
VI. 3 (B) (i) Composition
GSCASH shall designate by rotation three persons from amongst its members for a 
period of one month to receive and screen complaints, henceforth called the Complaints 
Screening Committee. The names and contact details of these members shall be given 
widespread publicity by GSCASH.
VI.3 (B) (ii) Functions
a.	
The Complaints Screening Committee shall receive and record complaints of 
sexual harassment on Form I (Schedule 2) prescribed for the purpose. It shall 
carefully study the complaint and may hear the complainant and the defendant 
as well as other involved parties to determine whether an enquiry by GSCASH 
is to be instituted.
b. 	
At no time in the complaints receiving and recording procedure shall the 
defendant(s) and the complainant be placed face to face, or put in a situation 
where they may be face to face (e.g. they shall not be called at the same 
time and be made to wait in the same place), keeping strictly in view the 
need to protect the complainant from facing any serious health and/or 
safety problems, in accordance with the guidelines in the Supreme Court 
Judgment.
c. 	
At no time in the complaints receiving and recording procedure shall the past 
sexual history of the complainant be probed into, as such information shall be 
deemed irrelevant to a complaint of sexual harassment.
d. 	
GSCASH may issue an order of restraint to the defendant(s) in accordance with 
the procedure outlined below in Section VI.3(C).
e. 	
The Complaints Screening Committee shall communicate its recommendations, 
along with the reasons and documentary evidence, if any, thereof, in writing to 
the Chairperson of GSCASH as soon as possible.
Page | 161
f.	
The Complaints Screening Committee shall be responsible for making counseling 
services available to a person requesting for it.
g. 	
In a special provision for physically challenged complainants, or complainants 
in a serious medical condition, the Complaints Screening Committee may, on 
determining the complaint to be a prima facie complaint of sexual harassment, 
recommend the institution of enquiry proceedings.
VI.3 (B) (iii)
a.	
The complainant may withdraw his/her complaint in writing at any time during 
the complaints receiving and/or enquiry procedure.
b.	
The complaints screening/enquiry procedure shall, on such withdrawal, be 
terminated, save in instances in which the Complaints Screening/Enquiry 
Committee is informed, knows, or has reason to believe, that the reasons for such 
withdrawal are the consequences or effect of coercion and intimidation exerted 
by the defendant(s), or any person on her/his behalf, on the complainant. In 
such an instance, the complaints screening/enquiry proceedings shall continue 
in accordance with the procedure outlined in Sections VI.3(C) and 4(C).
VI.3 (C) Restraint Order
VI.3 (C) (i) A restraint order in terms of GSCASH Rules shall provide, on Form IV 
prescribed for the purpose (Schedule 2), a summary of the complaint, the date(s), 
time(s), and location(s), of the alleged incident(s). It shall warn the defendant(s) that 
any attempt on her /his part or by person(s) acting on his /her behalf, to contact, or 
influence, or intimidate, or exert pressure on the complainant or any person in the 
complainant’s confidence may prove prejudicial to her/his case.
VI. 3 (C) (ii) The complainant or any other person should intimate in writing the 
Complaints Screening Committee, the Chairperson of GSCASH and/or the Enquiry 
Committee of any violation of the order of restraint by the defendant(s), or any persons 
acting on her /his behalf.
VI. 3 (C) (iii) Should the Complaints Screening Committee, the Chairperson of 
GSCASH, or the Enquiry Committee be convinced of the truth of such allegations, 
Page | 162
the Chairperson of GSCASH and/ or the Chief Enquiry Officer may summon the 
defendant(s) in person and issue a verbal and written warning that such behavior may 
lead to an adverse inference being drawn against her/him. The Enquiry Committee 
or GSCASH shall retain the right to close the enquiry proceedings, and to give an ex 
parte decision on the complaint.
VI. 3 (C) (iv) The Enquiry Committee and GSCASH shall consider all violations of the 
restraint order when determining the nature of offence of a defendant found guilty of 
sexual harassment.
VI. 4. Formal Enquiry
Once the Complaints Screening Committee has decided that the complaint merits 
further investigation, it shall inform the GSCASH. The GSCASH shall conduct formal 
enquiry and provide its resources to ensure the complainant’s safety on the campus. 
For this purpose, the Chairperson of GSCASH shall convene an Emergency meeting to 
constitute the Enquiry Committee. GSCASH shall designate from within the members 
of such committee the Chief Enquiry Officer who shall be a woman.
VI. 4 (A) Composition of the Enquiry Committee
The composition of the Enquiry Committee shall conform to the guidelines below:
a.	
The Enquiry Committee shall consist of not less than three persons and not more 
than five persons.
b.	
It shall have at least 50% women.
c.	
It shall include at least one third-party, i.e., the NGO representative or an eminent 
woman academician.
d.	
In cases involving students/academic staff/non-teaching staff, it shall include 
a representative of the constituency of the complainant and the defendant 
(i.e., if the complaint is filed by a student against an academic staff member, 
then the Enquiry Committee shall include one student and one academic staff 
member).
Page | 163
e.	
No person who is a complainant, witness, or defendant in the complaint of 
sexual harassment shall be a member of a GSCASH Enquiry Committee.
f.	
The membership of an Enquiry Committee shall not be changed or in any other 
way modified during its proceedings, save for the provisions in Sections V.5 - 8.
g.	
Members of GSCASH who are representatives of unions/associations of which 
the complainant and/or the defendant are also members, shall not be eligible to 
serve on an Enquiry Committee.
h.	
GSCASH may, at its own discretion, co-opt any person(s) with demonstrable 
sensitivity to gender issues to be a part of an Enquiry Committee, provided that 
the majority of members are the members of GSCASH. Such a person shall not 
serve as the Chief Enquiry Officer.
VI.4 (B) Functions of the Enquiry Committee
a.	
The Enquiry Committee shall enquire into the complaint of sexual harassment 
using procedures in conformity with the principles of natural justice and gender 
sensitivity.
b.	
The Enquiry Committee shall act on any violation of the order of restraint issued 
to the defendant in accordance with the procedure outlined in Section VI.3 (C).
c.	
The Enquiry Committee shall submit a detailed report to GSCASH in which it shall 
communicate its findings based on its investigations and its recommendations 
regarding the nature of disciplinary action, if any.
VI.4 (C) Procedure to be Followed by the Enquiry Committee
a.	
The Enquiry Committee shall not, at any time in the enquiry proceedings, cause 
the defendant and the complainant and/or their witnesses to be placed face to 
face, or put in a situation where they may be face to face (e.g. they shall not be 
called at the same time and be made to wait in the same place), keeping strictly 
in view the need to protect the complainant from facing any serious health and/ 
or safety problems, in accordance with the guidelines in the Supreme Court 
Judgment.
Page | 164
b.	
The Enquiry Committee shall strive to complete the enquiry in the shortest 
possible time, not exceeding three months from the date that a complaint is 
referred to it, except for reasons that the Enquiry Committee shall provide in 
writing to GSCASH.
c.	
The Enquiry Committee shall provide reasonable opportunity to the complainant 
and the defendant for presenting and defending her/his case.
d.	
The Enquiry Committee may call any person to appear as a witness if it is of the 
opinion that it shall be in the interest of justice.
e.	
The Enquiry Committee shall have the power to summon any official papers or 
documents pertaining to the complainant as well as the defendant.
f.	
The Enquiry Committee may consider as relevant any earlier complaints against 
the defendant. However, the past sexual history of the complainant shall not be 
probed into as such information shall be deemed irrelevant to a complaint of 
sexual harassment.
g.	
The Enquiry Committee shall have the right to summon, as many times as 
required, the defendant, complainant and/ or any witnesses for the purpose of 
supplementary testimony and/ or clarifications.
h.	
The Enquiry Committee shall have the right to terminate the enquiry proceedings 
and to give an ex parte decision on the complaint, should the defendant fail, 
without valid ground, to present herself /himself for three consecutive hearings 
convened by the Chief Enquiry Officer.
i.	
The Chief Enquiry Officer shall be responsible for making the defendant and the 
complainant aware that counselling services can be made available if so desired.
j.	
Within two days of the institution of enquiry proceedings by GSCASH, 
the Enquiry Committee shall prepare a summons containing details of the 
complaint such as the location, date and time on which the incident is alleged 
to have occurred and shall hand over the same to the complainant (Form VI, 
Schedule 2) as well as to the defendant (Form Schedule 2) along with a copy of 
the Rules and Procedures of GSCASH. It shall also intimate the defendant and 
the complainant the contact details of all members of the Enquiry Committee. 
Page | 165
The Enquiry Committee shall also make available to the defendant a true copy 
of the original complaint(s) lodged by the complainant(s).
k.	
Within not more than two working days on the receipt of the first intimation 
of the enquiry, the complainant and the defendant shall submit to the Chief 
Enquiry Officer, in writing, a list of witnesses, together with their contact details, 
that she/he desires the Enquiry Committee to examine.
l.	
On receipt of the first intimation of the enquiry, and not more than two working 
days after such date, the complainant and/or the defendant shall inform the 
Chief Enquiry Officer whether they shall wish to exercise the rights afforded in 
Sections (p) - (r) below.
m.	
The Chief Enquiry Officer shall convene the first hearing of the enquiry. The 
defendant, the complainant, and witnesses shall be intimated at least seventy-
two hours in advance in writing of the date, time and venue of the enquiry 
proceedings.
n.	
If the complainant, defendant, or witness desire to appear before the Enquiry 
Committee accompanied by one companion of their choice, they shall 
communicate to the Chief Enquiry Officer the name of that person. Such a person 
shall have only observer status and her/his presence during the proceedings 
shall be restricted to the testimony of the individual she/he is accompanying.
o.	
The identities of all witnesses shall throughout be protected by the Enquiry 
Committee by the use of a coding system for this purpose.
p.	
The complainant(s) and the defendant, or any one person on her/his behalf, 
shall have the right to examine written transcripts of the recordings with the 
exclusion of witnesses’ names and identities. Any person nominated by the 
complainant and/or the defendant on her/his behalf shall be (only) either a 
student, or a member of the academic or non­teaching staff of Jawaharlal Nehru 
University. No person who has been found guilty of sexual harassment shall be 
accepted as a nominee. The complainant(s)/defendant should inform the Chief 
Enquiry Officer specifically if they wish to exercise this right. The Chief Enquiry 
Officer may allow access to such documents on a specific date to be intimated at 
least two days in advance to each of the parties concerned. At no point in time, 
however, can the concerned parties take these documents outside the office of 
the GSCASH.
Page | 166
Page | 167
Page | 168
q.	
The complainant and the defendant shall have the right of cross-examination of 
all witnesses. Such crossexamination shall be conducted in the form of written 
questions and responses via the Enquiry Committee.
r.	
The defendant/complainant shall submit to the Chief Enquiry Officer, a written 
list of questions that she/he desires to pose to the witness. The Enquiry Committee 
shall retain the right to disallow any questions that it has reason to believe to be 
irrelevant, mischievous, or gender-insensitive. Any behaviour, verbal or otherwise, 
on the part of the defendant or her/his nominee, that is designed to intimidate or 
subject the complainant to mental and physical trauma, shall be construed as a 
violation of the order of restraint issued by GSCASH as defined in Section
s.	
The complainant and the defendant shall be responsible for presenting their 
witnesses before the Enquiry Committee. However, if the Enquiry Committee 
is convinced that the absence of either of the parties to the disputes is on valid 
grounds, the Enquiry Committee shall adjourn that particular meeting of the 
Committee for a period not exceeding five days. The meeting so adjourned shall 
be conducted thereafter, even if the person concerned fails to appear for the said 
adjourned meeting without prior intimation/valid ground.
t.	
All proceedings of the Enquiry Committee shall be recorded in writing and the 
same together with the statement of witnesses shall be endorsed by the persons 
concerned in token of authenticity thereof.
u.	
All persons heard by the Enquiry Committee, as well as observers /nominees, 
shall take and observe an oath of secrecy about the proceedings. Any violation of 
the oath of secrecy may invite the full range of penalties outlined in Section IX.
v.	
If the complainant desires to tender any documents by way of evidence, the 
Enquiry Committee shall supply true copies of such documents to the defendant. 
Similarly, if the defendant desires to tender any documents in evidence, the Enquiry 
Committee shall supply true copies of such documents to the complainant.
w.	
In the event that the Enquiry Committee thinks that supplementary testimony 
is required, the Chief Enquiry Officer shall forward to the persons concerned a 
summary of the proceedings and allow for a time period of seven days to submit 
such testimony, in person or in writing, to the Enquiry Committee.
Page | 169
x.	
After concluding its investigation, the Enquiry Committee shall submit a detailed 
reasoned report of its findings to the Chairperson of GSCASH. In the event that 
it finds the defendant guilty of sexual harassment, it shall also recommend the 
nature of disciplinary action to be taken on the complaint as referred in Section 
IX. It shall also recommend whether GSCASH and the University authorities 
should, after disciplinary action has been taken, publicise the identity of the 
offender, the act and the disciplinary action taken. If the Enquiry Committee 
finds no merit in the complaint, it shall write to the Chairperson of GSCASH, 
giving reasons for its conclusions.
y.	
Nothing precludes GSCASH from taking cognisance of any new fact or evidence 
which may arise or be brought before it during the pendency of the enquiry 
proceedings and even after the communication of the findings to appropriate 
University authorities, provided that in the latter case, the composition of the 
reconvened Enquiry Committee shall be at least half of the members of the 
Enquiry Committee that originally enquired into the said complaint.
Page | 170
VII.	
COMMUNICATION OF FINDINGS
VII (i)	Within three working days of the receipt of the report and recommendations 
of the Enquiry Committee, the Chairperson of GSCASH shall convene an Emergency 
meeting. Each member of GSCASH shall have the right to access the entire enquiry 
proceedings, or any part thereof, and to participate in GSCASH deliberations on the 
complaint. Within two working days of the adoption of the report of the Enquiry 
Committee, the Chairperson of GSCASH shall forward the report of the Enquiry 
Committee, together with a summary of the opinions of the members of GSCASH 
(including dissenting opinions) to the Vice-Chancellor for consideration of appropriate 
University authorities - the Executive Council for faculty members and group ‘A’ 
officers, and the Vice-Chancellor, for students and other employees.
VII(ii) Within a reasonable period of time, and not in any case exceeding 30 days from 
the date of communication of its findings by GSCASH, the appropriate University 
authority shall convene a meeting with GSCASH, in which at least two-thirds of the 
Enquiry Committee shall be present, to discuss the findings and recommendations of 
the Enquiry Committee.
VIII.	 OBLIGATIONS OF UNIVERSITY AUTHORITIES AND FUNC-
TIONARIES
i.	
The University authorities shall, through a notification each academic year, 
notify the names and contact details of the members of GSCASH, and the fact 
that GSCASH is the University body responsible for gender sensitisation and 
enquiries into complaints of sexual harassment.
ii.	
The University authorities will ensure that the Policy is included in the Admission 
Brochure and circulated at the time of registration. The University authorities 
will ensure that recruitment announcements to all academic and non-teaching 
positions include the following statement, as notification of the Policy: Jawaharlal 
Nehru University has a Policy against sexual harassment and is committed to 
providing an environment free from gender discrimination and harassment.
Page | 171
iii.	
In order to ensure the permanent placement of the Policy, the University 
authorities and functionaries shall arrange for several copies to be placed on 
boards for display in prominent places, such as the entrances to the campus, 
academic and administration buildings, hostels, etc.
iv.	
The University authorities and functionaries shall provide legal, medical and 
counselling assistance to those complainants who have to take recourse to 
the law.
v.	
The University authorities and functionaries shall forward all complaints of 
sexual harassment to GSCASH, save in cases in which the complainant has 
expressly prohibited such forwarding.
vi.	
The University authorities shall maintain full confidentiality with respect to 
matters pertaining to GSCASH enquiries into complaints of sexual harassment. 
The University authorities shall extend all necessary assistance for ensuring full, 
effective and speedy implementation of these Rules and Procedures of GSCASH.
vii.	 As is required by the Supreme Court Judgement, the University authorities 
and functionaries shall strive to create a workplace in which the functioning of 
GSCASH and/ or the interests of justice are not subjected to undue “pressure 
from senior levels”.
viii.	 As required by the Supreme Court Judgement, the University authorities 
shall forward to the government department concerned, the Annual Report of 
GSCASH together with a written report on the Action Taken by them upon the 
decisions/recommendations of the GSCASH and/or the Appeals Committee.
IX.	
PENALTIES
Any student, service provider, resident, outsider, or a member of the academic or non-
teaching staff found guilty of sexual harassment shall be liable for disciplinary action.
The penalties listed below (in ascending order) are indicative, and shall not 
constrain the University authorities from considering others, in accordance with the 
rules governing the conduct of employees and students in practice at the time.
Page | 172
IX(1)	 Penalties in Case of Academic Staff
a.	
Warning, reprimand, or censure.
b.	
Withholding of one or more increments for a period not exceeding one year.
c.	
Removal from an administrative position at the Centre, School and/or University 
levels.
d.	
Disbarment from holding an administrative position at the Centre, School and/
or University levels.
e.	
Suspension from service for a limited period.
f.	
Compulsory retirement.
g.	
Dismissal from service.
	
Further, the penalty awarded shall be recorded in his/her Confidential Record.
IX(2) Penalties in Case of Non-Teaching Staff
a.	
Warning, reprimand, or censure.
b.	
Transfer
c.	
Withholding of one or more increments for a period not exceeding one year.
d.	
Suspension from service for a limited period.
e.	
Compulsory retirement.
f.	
Dismissal from service
	
Further, the penalty awarded shall be recorded in his/her Confidential Record.
IX (3) Penalties in Case of JNU Students
a.	
Warning or reprimand.
b.	
Transfer to another hostel.
c.	
Withdrawal of hostel accommodation for a period up to one semester.
d.	
Withdrawal of the right to an official character certificate from Jawaharlal Nehru 
University.
Page | 173
e.	
Withdrawal of hostel accommodation for the entire period of study.
f.	
Rustication from the University for a period up to two semesters.
g.	
Expulsion from the University, and/or a bar on appearing for the entrance 
examination/interview to any programme of study offered by Jawaharlal Nehru 
University.
h.	
Withholding of a degree awarded by Jawaharlal Nehru University. Further, the 
penalty awarded shall be recorded in his/her Personal File.
IX(4) Penalties in Case of Outsiders
a.	
Warning, reprimand, or censure.
b.	
A letter communicating her/his misconduct to her/his place of education, 
employment or residence.
c.	
Declaration of the campus as out of bounds for her/him, and/or a bar on 
appearing for the entrance examination/interview to any programme of study 
offered by Jawaharlal Nehru University.
d.	
Any other action as may be necessary.
IX(5) Penalties in Case of Service Providers
a.	
Warning, reprimand, or censure.
b.	
Declaration of the campus as out of bounds for her/him.
c.	
Withdrawal of the right to run/manage/ work in any commercial enterprise, or 
to provide services, on the campus.
d.	
Any other action as may be necessary.
In addition to the penalties specified under (1)-(5) above, the person may be advised 
to undergo counselling and gender sensitisation, and to give a written and/ or public 
apology to the complainant.
Page | 174
IX(6) Penalty in Case of a Second Offence
A second, or repeated offence, may, on the recommendation of GSCASH, attract a 
major penalty.
X	
OTHER FUNCTIONS
X(1) False Complaint/Deposition
i.	
If the Complaints Screening Committee or the Enquiry Committee finds no 
merit in any complaint/deposition, it shall write to the Chairperson of GSCASH 
giving reasons for its conclusions.
ii.	
Within four working days of the receipt of this communication, the Chairperson 
of GSCASH shall call a Special Meeting to discuss the recommendations of the 
Complaints Screening Committee or Enquiry Committee, and to decide whether 
a show-cause notice shall be issued to the complainant/ witness(es).
iii.	
Upon the decision to issue a show-cause notice, the Chairperson of GSCASH 
shall issue it to the complainant/witness(es). The show-cause notice shall cite the 
bases of the Committee’s conclusions and require the complainant/witness(es) to 
explain, within seven days (in writing and/ or in person), as to why disciplinary 
action shall not be taken against her/him.
iv.	
Within four working days of receipt of any explanation from the complainant/
witness(es) to this show-cause notice, or after the expiry of the time specified for 
such explanation, the Chairperson of GSCASH shall convene a Special Meeting 
to consider the explanation or any lack thereof.
v.	
In event of no, insufficient, or unconvincing explanation, GSCASH shall forward 
its findings to the appropriate University Authority for further action.
X (2) Protection against Victimisation
i.	
If the complainant is a student and the defendant(s) is a teacher, during the 
investigation and enquiry, and even after such an enquiry if the teacher is found 
Page | 175
guilty, the defendant(s) shall not supervise any academic activity of the student, 
including but not limited to, evaluation and examination, re-examination, and 
supervision of research.
ii.	
If a witness named by the complainant is a student and the defendant(s) is a 
teacher, during the duration of the investigation and enquiry, and even after 
such an enquiry if the teacher is found guilty, the defendant shall not supervise 
any academic activity of the student, including but not limited to, evaluation 
and examination, reexamination, and supervision of research.
iii.	
If both the complainant and the defendant(s) are members of the academic and/ 
or non­teaching staff of the University, during the duration of the investigation 
and enquiry, and even after such an enquiry if the defendant is found guilty, the 
defendant shall not write the Confidential Reports of the complainant, if she/he 
is otherwise so authorized.
iv.	
If witnesses named by the complainant and the defendant(s) are members of the 
academic and/ or non-teaching staff of the University, during the duration of 
the investigation and enquiry, and even after such an enquiry if the defendant 
is found guilty, the defendant shall not write the Confidential Reports of the 
complainant, if she/he is otherwise so authorized.
v.	
If the defendant(s) is an outsider, during the duration of the investigation and 
enquiry, and even after such an enquiry if the defendant is found guilty, the 
defendant shall not be allowed to enter the campus, except for the purpose of 
attending the present enquiry.
vi.	
If the defendant(s) is a resident/service provider, during the duration of the 
investigation and enquiry, and even after such an enquiry if the defendant is 
found guilty, the order of restraint issued in accordance with the procedures in 
Section VI.3(C) shall be in force at all times.
X (3) Provisions for Appeal
i.	
In the event of the GSCASH not taking action on a complaint, or if the complainant 
or defendant is dissatisfied with the disciplinary action taken by the University 
Page | 176
authorities, she/he shall have the right to appeal to an Appeals Committee. 
Appeals may be lodged with the University authorities.
a.	
An Appeals Committee shall consist of:
b.	
One person nominated by the Executive Council of Jawaharlal Nehru 
University from amongst its members,
c.	
One former Chairperson of GSCASH or any former senior woman member 
of GSCASH nominated by the Vice-Chancellor. The nominee shall chair 
the Appeals Committee, and
ii.	
One woman faculty member of the Centre for Women Studies, School of Social 
Sciences, Jawaharlal Nehru University, or any other senior woman faculty 
member nominated by the Vice-Chancellor.
iii.	 The Appeals Committee shall have all the powers and duties of an Appellate 
Body. It shall consider the appeal, with the appellant deposing in person. It 
shall have the power to summon any person as witness as well as any official 
record. On the basis of all the records before it, including the deposition of the 
appellant, if it is satisfied that the matter needs to be further enquired into, 
it shall conduct an enquiry in accordance with the guidelines in the Supreme 
Court Judgement.
iv.	
The Appeals Committee shall report to the Executive Council of Jawaharlal 
Nehru University its findings and recommendations on the nature of the action 
to be taken on the appeal.
X(4) Amendment to the Rules & Procedures of GSCASH
i.	
Amendments to the Rules and Procedures of GSCASH shall have effect only if 
they are in consonance with the letter and spirit of the Supreme Court Judgement, 
the Report of the Working Group on Sexual Harassment headed by Karuna 
Chanana, the Policy, and the Rules and Procedures.
ii.	
Amendments shall be effected by a decision taken in a Special Meeting of 
GSCASH called for the purpose.
Page | 177
iii.	 The proposed amendment (s), together with the objectives and reasons 
thereof, shall be recorded in writing and circulated by the proposer of the 
amendment (s) at least fifteen working days prior to the Special Meeting 
called for the purpose.
iv.	
An amendment motion shall be earned by two-thirds of the members present 
and voting. In the event of a tie on an amendment motion, it shall be put to vote 
one more time. If a tie recurs, the amendment motion shall be reconsidered by 
another Special Meeting to be called after at least fifteen working days.
X(5) Miscellaneous
i.	
The provisions of these Rules and Procedures of GSCASH shall be duly 
incorporated within any other Statute, Circular or Ordinance of the University 
as may be relevant, in keeping with the Supreme Court Judgement.
ii.	
The proceedings under these Rules and Procedures of GSCASH shall not, in any 
way, be affected by any other proceedings against the defendant preferred by 
the complainant under any other provision of civil or criminal law, except to the 
extent specifically ordered by a court of law.
iii.	
The provisions of these Rules and Procedures of GSCASH shall not restrict the 
powers of the University or the complainant to proceed against the defendant 
for any other misconduct, or pursue criminal or civil remedies, whether or not 
connected with the misconduct within the purview of these rules.
Page | 179
Appendix 11
UNIVERSITY OF DELHI
Policy on Sexual Harassment
UNIVERSITY OF DELHI
2004
University of Delhi Policy on Sexual Harassment
Page | 180
2
CONTENTS
PART ONE
1.1	
Preamble	
4
1.2	
Social Context of Sexual Harassment	
5
1.3	
Scope of Reference for the University of Delhi	
6
1.4	
Guiding Principles for Definition of Sexual Harassment and
	
Redressal Mechanism	
7
1.5	
Objectives of the Policy	
7
PART TWO
2.1	
Definition of Sexual Harassment	
8
2.2	
Jurisdiction of Policy	
9
2.3	
The Complaints Mechanism and the Scope of its Functions	
11
2.4	
Method of Constituting Complaints Committees	
12
A	 The College Complaints Committee (CCC)	
12
B	 The University Units Complaints Committee (UUCC)	
13
C	 The Central Pool Complaints Committee (CPCC)	
14
D	The Apex Complaints Committee (ACC)	
15
2.5	
Power and Duties of ACC/UUCC/CCC	
16
	
	
 Preventive
	
	
 Remedial
2.6	
Procedure for registering complaint	
17
University of Delhi Policy on Sexual Harassment
Page | 181
2.7	
Enquiry Procedures	
18
2.8	
Redressal		
21
2.9	
Networking	
23
2.10	 Monitoring and Review	
24
2.11	 Support Staff	
24
2.12	 Amendments to the Policy	
25
PART THREE
3.1	
Financial Assistance	
26
PART FOUR
4.1	
Suggestions for additional administrative measures	
27
APPENDIX ONE: Procedure for the Constitution of the Committees	
29
APPENDIX TWO: Department Clusters for University Committees	
39
3
University of Delhi Policy on Sexual Harassment
Page | 182
University of Delhi
Policy on Sexual Harassment
PART ONE
1.1	
PREAMBLE
The University of Delhi is committed to creating and maintaining a community in 
which students, teachers and non-teaching staff can work together in an environment 
free of violence, harassment, exploitation, and intimidation. This includes all forms of 
gender violence, sexual harassment, and discrimination on the basis of sex/gender. 
Every member of the University community should be aware that while the University 
is committed to the right to freedom of expression and association, it strongly supports 
gender equality and opposes any form of gender discrimination and violence.
Sexual harassment has come to be widely condemned as a form of human rights 
violation, and as an infringement on life and liberty as defined by the Constitution 
of India. Such behaviour is seen to transgress common dignity, gender equality, and 
fundamental rights. Sexual harassment is contrary to anti-discrimination laws [Article 
15: “Prohibition of discrimination on grounds of religion, race, caste, sex or place of 
birth” and Article 19(1)(g): Right to Freedom which upholds a woman’s right “to 
practice any profession, or to carry on any occupation, trade or business”]
The Supreme Court of India, in a landmark judgment in August 1997 (Vishaka & 
others vs. the State of Rajasthan & others) stated that every instance of sexual harassment 
is a violation of “Fundamental Rights” under Articles 14, 15, and 21 of the Constitution 
of India, and amounts to a violation of the “Right to Freedom” under Article 19 (1)(g). 
Another Supreme Court Judgment in January 1999 (Apparel Export Promotion Council 
4
University of Delhi Policy on Sexual Harassment
Page | 183
vs. Chopra) has stated that sexually harassing behaviour “needs to be eliminated as 
there is no compromise on such violations”. The Supreme Court further reiterated 
that sexual harassment “is a violation of the fundamental right to gender equality and 
the right to life and liberty”.
These judgments confirm India’s international commitment to the International 
Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (acceded to in 1979) and the 
Convention for the Elimination of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW, ratified 
1993). The Government of India was also a signatory to the Resolutions of the Fourth 
World Conference on Women in Beijing in 1995.
The Supreme Court judgment of 1997 makes it obligatory for every employer and 
other responsible persons to follow the guidelines laid down by the Court and to 
evolve a specific policy to combat sexual harassment in the workplace. Educational 
institutions are bound by the same directive. Following this, the University of Delhi 
is committed to uphold the Constitutional mandate ensuring the above mentioned 
human rights of all those who fall within its jurisdiction.
1.2	
SOCIAL CONTEXT OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT
Though violent conduct is prohibited both by law and by University rules, a specific 
policy defining sexual harassment is required to address the specific form and extent of 
sexual harassment in the University. The policy recognises that sexual harassment is not 
an offence merely amounting to disruption of law and order. Sexual harassment is an 
act of power, and a public and collective violation that is often trivialised by labelling it 
an interpersonal transgression. It is therefore a violation of gender equality and also, of 
the right to a safe education and work environment for all. Sexual harassment not only 
affects a few individuals but reinforces gender-based discrimination for everyone.
It, therefore, becomes imperative that various educational institutions, and civil society 
as a whole, should take adequate measures to ensure the safety, security, dignity, 
5
University of Delhi Policy on Sexual Harassment
Page | 184
rights and equality of women as much as of men. Such measures will strengthen social 
and professional relationships in the work place.
The University of Delhi, in evolving this policy, has borne in mind that the institution 
functions within a social context. Given the social stigma associated with sexual 
harassment, a majority of instances of sexual harassment go unreported or even 
unmentioned. The policy, therefore, has evolved mechanisms that are accessible 
and will ensure confidentiality. It has also attempted to ensure fair, accountable and 
representative procedures for redressal and resolution.
1.3	
SCOPE OF REFERENCE FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF DELHI
In formulating a policy for preventing and redressing sexual harassment, the fact 
that the University of Delhi consists of a number of academic departments and 
administrative offices in two campuses and 79 affiliated colleges spread over the 
entire National Capital Region of Delhi has been considered. The University has 
an unusually large constituency of almost 2.25 lakh students and several thousand 
employees. A majority of these people commute to their “work place” (i.e. place of 
work/study) from various parts of the city.
The interpretation of the term, “work place,” for the purpose of the policy for the 
University of Delhi, will extend to all public spheres that remain in contact with 
members of the University community. Such public spaces include not just the 
physical premises under the supervision of the University system, but even areas 
in and outside Delhi, where University members reside or travel to as part of their 
work as members of the University. The jurisdiction will include fieldtrips, sports 
tournaments, conferences, college festivals and all other activities undertaken by any 
person as a member of Delhi University.
6
University of Delhi Policy on Sexual Harassment
Page | 185
1.4	
GUIDING PRINCIPLES FOR DEFINITION OF SEXUAL  
HARASSMENT AND REDRESSAL MECHANISM
This policy defines sexual harassment and the mechanisms of redressal by looking at 
the specific structures, needs and imperatives in The University of Delhi. It is guided 
by the definition of sexual harassment given by the Supreme Court in 1997 in Vishaka 
vs. State of Rajasthan. It is also guided by the Justice Wad Committee Report of 1994 
(University of Delhi) which in its definition of sexual harassment included Quid Pro 
Quo (“When submission to unwelcome conduct is explicitly or implicitly made a 
condition or the basis for employment decisions”) and a Hostile Work Environment 
(for example when a supervisor or co-worker(s) harasses someone solely because of her 
gender to the point that the conduct makes it more difficult for her to perform her job 
or the conduct creates an intimidating, hostile or offensive working environment).
1.5	
OBJECTIVES OF THE POLICY
•	
To fulfil the directive of the Supreme Court enjoining all employers to develop 
and implement a policy against sexual harassment at the work place.
•	
To evolve a permanent mechanism for the prevention and redressal of sexual 
harassment cases and other acts of gender based violence at the University of 
Delhi.
•	
To ensure the implementation of the policy in letter and spirit through proper 
reporting of the complaints and their follow-up procedures.
•	
To uphold the commitment of the University of Delhi to provide an environment 
free of gender-based discrimination.
•	
To create a secure physical and social environment which will deter acts of sexual 
harassment
7
University of Delhi Policy on Sexual Harassment
Page | 186
•	
To promote a social and psychological environment which will raise awareness 
about sexual harassment in its various forms.
•	
To generate public opinion against sexual harassment and all forms of gender-
based violence.
PART TWO
2.1	
DEFINITION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT
The following constitute sexual harassment:
1.	
When submission to unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual 
favours, and verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature are, 
implicitly or explicitly, made a term or condition of teaching/guidance, 
employment, participation or evaluation of a person’s engagement in 
any University activity.
2.	
When unwelcome sexual advances, and verbal, non-verbal and/or physical 
conduct such as loaded comments, remarks or jokes, letters, phone calls or 
e-mails, gestures, exhibition of pornography, lurid stares, physical contact, 
stalking, sounds or display of a derogatory nature have the purpose and/
or effect of interfering with an individual’s performance or of creating an 
intimidating, hostile, or offensive environment.
3.	
When a person/s uses, with a sexual purpose, the body or any part of it or 
any object as an extension of the body in relation to another person without 
the latter’s consent or against that person’s will, such conduct will amount 
to sexual assault.
4.	
When deprecatory comments, conduct or any such behaviour is based 
on the gender identity/sexual orientation of the person and/or when the 
8
Page | 187
University of Delhi Policy on Sexual Harassment
classroom or other public forum of the University is used to denigrate/
discriminate against person(s), or create a hostile environment on the basis 
of a person’s gender identity/sexual orientation.
2.2	
JURISDICTION
The rules and regulations outlined in this policy shall be applicable to all complaints 
of sexual harassment made:
I.	
By a member of the university against any other member of the university 
irrespective of whether the harassment is alleged to have taken place within 
or outside the campus.
II.	
By a resident against a member of the university or made by a member 
against a resident irrespective of whether sexual harassment is alleged to 
have taken place within or outside the campus.
III.	
By an outsider against a member of the University or by a member of the 
university against an outsider if the sexual harassment is alleged to have 
taken place within the campus.
IV.	 by a member of the university against an outsider if the sexual harassment is 
alleged to have taken place outside the campus. In such cases the Committee 
shall recommend that the university/college authorities initiate action by 
making a complaint with the appropriate authority. Further the committee 
will actively assist and provide available resources to the complainant in 
pursuing the complaint.
In the above the following definitions will apply:
‘Members of the University’ includes students, teachers and non-teaching staff of the 
University.
9
University of Delhi Policy on Sexual Harassment
Page | 188
‘Students’ includes regular students as well as current ex-students of Delhi 
University.
‘Teachers’ includes any person on the staff of the university or any of the colleges/ 
institutions affiliated to it, who is appointed to a teaching and/or research post, 
whether full time, temporary, ad-hoc, part-time, visiting, honorary, or on special duty 
or deputation and shall include employees employed on a casual or project basis.
‘Non-Teaching Staff’ includes any person on the staff of the university or any of the 
colleges/institutions affiliated to it, who is not included in the category of teacher. It 
shall also include contract workers and daily wagers.
‘Resident’ includes any person who is a temporary or permanent resident of any of 
the accommodations or premises allotted to an employee by the University of Delhi 
or by any of the colleges or institutions affiliated to it.
‘Outsider’ includes any person who is not a member of the university or a resident. 
It also includes but is not limited to any private person offering residential, food and 
other facilities to members of Delhi University or any college/institution affiliated to 
Delhi University.
‘Campus’ includes all places of work and residence in the Delhi University or any college 
or institutions affiliated to the Delhi University. It includes all places of instruction, 
research and administration, as well as hostel, health centres, sports grounds, staff 
quarters, public places (including parks, streets and lanes) and canteens, etc. on the 
Delhi University campus or the campus of any college or institution affiliated to the 
Delhi University.
10
University of Delhi Policy on Sexual Harassment
Page | 189
2.3	
THE COMPLAINTS MECHANISM AND THE SCOPE OF ITS 
FUNCTIONS
	
GUIDING PRINCIPLES FOR CONSTITUTION OF COMMITTEES
The policy has abided by the following principles:
1.	
In order to decentralise the complaints procedure and provide easy access 
to all, separate cells have been provided for colleges, department clusters 
and others.
2.	
In order to make the complaints committees accountable and democratic, a 
combined method of elections and nominations is used to constitute every 
committee.
3.	
In order to create autonomous institutional structures to look into 
complaints of sexual harassment, members from outside the institution 
with a known contribution to gender issues have been included in each 
Committee.
4.	
To make the Committees representative, each category of University 
members is given representation in the Committee.
5.	
As per the 1997 Supreme Court Judgment, it is mandatory for each 
committee to have a woman chairperson as well as at least 50 per cent 
women members.
STATUS:
The Complaints Committees and the Apex Complaints Committee shall have statutory 
status and be empowered to carry out the mandate of the policy.
11
University of Delhi Policy on Sexual Harassment
Page | 190
STRUCTURE
Implementation of the policy will be achieved through the following structures:
•	
College Complaints Committee (CCC): A complaints and redressal body to be 
set up in each college of the University of Delhi.
•	
University Units Complaints Committee (UUCC): A complaints and redressal 
body to be set up in clusters of University Departments/ Centres.
•	
Central Pool Complaints Committee (CPCC): A complaints and redressal body 
for those units that are not affiliated to any college/department/institution and 
have not been included in either CCC or UUCC. There will be one committee for 
North Campus and one for the South Campus.
•	
Apex Complaints Committee (ACC): An apex regulatory and appellate body of 
the University of Delhi for redressal and resolution of complaints.
2.4	
METHOD OF CONSTITUTING THE COMPLAINT  
COMMITTEES
(A)	
COLLEGE COMPLAINTS COMMITTEE (CCC)
1.	
*Two teacher representatives to be elected/nominated by the procedure 
outlined in Appendix One.
2.	
*Two non-teaching Staff representatives of the College (of which one must 
be from Group D) to be elected/nominated by the procedure outlined in 
Appendix One.
12
University of Delhi Policy on Sexual Harassment
Page | 191
3.	
*Three student representatives to be elected from a Gender Sensitising 
Committee of students comprising one elected representative of each class. 
At least one of the three representatives should be a second year graduate 
student. The details of this procedure are outlined in Appendix One.
4.	
*Two persons with known contribution to women’s issues, to be co-opted 
by the Committee from outside the College. One of these may preferably 
have a legal background.
5.	
The Chairperson (woman) to be elected from amongst the members.
6.	
The Member Secretary to be elected from amongst the members.
*At least 50% of the members in each of these categories should be women.
The term of each member (other than students) shall be two years. The previous 
Committee will continue till the new Committee is constituted. The College should 
ensure that the new Committee is constituted latest by 20th September every year.
Complaints can be given to any member of the Committee. It will be incumbent on the 
Principal or any teacher/head of an administrative unit to forward a complaint s/he 
receives to the committee immediately.
(B)	
UNIVERSITY UNITS COMPLAINTS COMMITTEE (UUCC)
1.	
*Two teacher representative to be elected/nominated by the procedure 
outlined in Appendix One.
2.	
*Two non-teaching Staff representatives of the College (of which one must 
be from Group D) to be elected/nominated by the procedure outlined in 
Appendix One.
3.	
*Three student representatives to be elected from a Gender Sensitising 
Committee of students comprising one elected representative of each class. 
At least one of the three representatives should be a post-graduate student 
13
University of Delhi Policy on Sexual Harassment
Page | 192
and one should be a research student. The details of this procedure are 
outlined in Appendix One.
4.	
*Two persons with a known contribution to women’s issues, to be co-opted 
by the Committee from outside the Unit. One of these may preferably have 
a legal background.
5.	
The Chairperson(woman) to be elected from amongst the members.
6.	
The Member Secretary to be elected from amongst the members.
*At least 50% of the members in each of these categories should be women.
The term of each member (other than students) shall be two years. The previous 
Committee will continue till the new Committee is constituted. The Unit should ensure 
that the new Committee is constituted latest by 20th September every year.
Complaints can be given to any member of the Committee. It will be incumbent on the 
head of any department/administrative unit or any teacher to forward a complaint s/
he receives to the committee immediately.
(C)	
CENTRAL POOL COMPLAINTS COMMITTEE (CPCC)
1.	
*Two members elected/nominated from each of the four categories, group 
A, B, C and D by the procedure outlined in Appendix One.
2.	
*Three persons with known contribution to women’s issues to be co-opted 
by the Committee from outside the Unit. One of these may preferably have 
a legal background.
3.	
The Chairperson (woman) to be elected from amongst the members.
4.	
The Member Secretary to be elected from amongst the members.
*At least 50% of the members in each of these categories should be women.
14
University of Delhi Policy on Sexual Harassment
Page | 193
The term of each member shall be two years. The previous Committee will continue 
till the new Committee is constituted. The Unit should ensure that the new Committee 
is constituted latest by 20th September every year.
Complaints can be given to any member of the Committee. It will be incumbent on the 
Registrar or the head of an administrative unit to forward a complaint s/he receives 
to the committee immediately.
(D)	
APEX COMPLAINTS COMMITTEE (ACC)
1.	
The Director, Women’s Studies and Development Centre will be the 
Member Secretary of this Committee. Her office will function as the nodal 
agency and Secretariat.
2.	
One woman from the Proctorial team to be nominated by the Vice-
Chancellor.
3.	
*Two teacher representatives to be elected/nominated from the pool of 
teacher representatives on all CCCs, UUCCs, by the procedure outlined in 
Appendix One.
4.	
*Two non-teaching representatives to be elected/nominated from the 
pool of non-teacher representatives on all CCCs, UUCCs, CPCCs by the 
procedure outlined in Appendix One.
5.	
*Three student representatives to be elected from the pool of student 
representatives on all CCCs, UUCCs by the procedure outlined in Appendix 
One. These should include at least one each from the undergraduate, 
graduate and researcher categories.
6.	
One woman teacher of the University with known contribution to women’s 
issues to be co-opted by the committee.
7.	
*Two persons to be nominated by the Vice Chancellor from a panel 
prepared by the Committee. The panel will include names of five persons 
15
University of Delhi Policy on Sexual Harassment
Page | 194
(with at least three women) from outside the University, who have made a 
known contribution to gender issues. One of these may preferably have a 
legal background.
8.	
One person with known contribution to gender issues to be nominated by 
the Vice-Chancellor.
9.	
The Chairperson (woman) will be nominated by the Vice Chancellor from 
Category 7.
*At least 50% of the members in each of these categories should be women.
The term of each member (other than students) shall be two years. The previous 
Committee will continue till the new Committee is constituted. The WSDC should 
ensure that the new Committee is constituted latest by 20th September every year.
Complaints can be given to any member of the Committee.
General- As soon as the complaint is received, the same shall be sent to the committee 
within three days and the committee should initiate the process of inquiry within 
a week of the date of receipt of the complaint by the committee. The report of the 
Committee shall be placed before the Governing Body in the case of Colleges, or the 
Executive Council in all other cases.
2.5	
POWER AND DUTIES OF ACC / UUCC / CPCC/CCC
 
	
Preventive
1.	
To create and ensure a safe environment that is free of sexual harassment.
2.	
To create an atmosphere promoting equality and gender justice.
3.	
To publicise the policy in Hindi and English widely, especially through prospectuses, 
notice boards etc.
16
University of Delhi Policy on Sexual Harassment
Page | 195
4.	
To publicise in English and in Hindi the names and phone numbers of members of 
the committees.
5.	
To plan and carry out programmes for gender sensitisation with the 
assistance of the Gender Sensitising Committees and the WDCs (wherever 
they exist).
	
	
Remedial
1.	
The mechanism for registering complaints should be safe, accessible and 
sensitive.
2.	
To take cognisance of complaints about sexual harassment, conduct 
enquiries, provide assistance and redressal to the victims, recommend 
penalties and take action against the harasser, if necessary.
3.	
To recommend to the concerned authorities follow-up action and monitor 
the same.
4.	
To advise the disciplinary authority concerned to issue warnings or take 
the help of the law to stop the harasser, if the complainant consents.
5.	
To seek medical, police and legal intervention with the consent of the 
complainant.
6.	
To make arrangements for appropriate psychological, emotional and 
physical support (in the form of counselling, security and other assistance) 
to the victim if s/he so desires.
2.6	
Procedure for Registering Complaints
1.	
All complaints must be brought by the complainant in person. The exception 
for this will be in cases of forced confinement of the person. In such a case, 
17
University of Delhi Policy on Sexual Harassment
Page | 196
brought by another person on behalf of the complainant, the committee will 
examine whether an investigation, intervention or some other assistance 
is needed. In exceptional cases, third party/witness complaints may be 
entertained. In such cases, the committee will ascertain whether the person 
alleged to have been harassed wishes to lodge a formal complaint. Once 
such a complaint is received the committee shall proceed to investigate it 
as per the procedure specified.
2.	
If the complainant wishes s/he can be accompanied by a representative.
3.	
Employees not covered by UUCC, CCC and CPCC can approach the ACC 
directly.
4.	
The Vice-Chancellor can refer any complaint to any of the Committees 
including the Apex Committee.
5.	
A complainant can go directly to the Apex Committee. However, in such 
cases, which should be exceptional, the complainant should give reasons 
for doing so. In such a case, it is open to the ACC to refer the complaint 
back to the appropriate CCC/UUCC/CPCC.
2.7	
Enquiry Procedures
1.	
All complaints made to any committee member must be received and 
recorded by the member, who shall then inform the Chairperson about the 
complaint, who in turn shall call a meeting of the committee.
2.	
All meetings of the committee will be called by the Member Secretary in 
consultation with the Chairperson and a notice of at least 3 to 5 working 
days must be given.
3.	
The committee is bound to maintain confidentiality during the time of the 
enquiry (in order not to prejudice the proceedings).
18
University of Delhi Policy on Sexual Harassment
Page | 197
4.	
After the report has been finalised, confidentiality should be maintained, 
if the complainant so desires, by withholding the complainant’s name and 
other particulars that would identify her. (Revealing the identity either 
in exceptional cases such as stalking may put the complainant at greater 
risk or as a result of social prejudices the complainant may face additional 
adverse effects as a result of public circulation of the finished report.)
5.	
During an enquiry the quorum for all committee meetings will be one-
third of the total membership, and must include at least one member from 
the complainant’s category as well as, one of the two members co-opted 
from outside.
6.	
The UUCC/CCC/CPCC/ACC will, within ten days of the receipt of a 
complaint, establish a prima facie case of sexual harassment on the basis 
of both the definition of sexual harassment as given in this policy, and 
the jurisdiction of this policy. Reasons for not pursuing a complaint must 
be recorded in the minutes and made available to the complainant in 
writing.
7.	
In case of a complaint filed by another person on behalf of the complainant 
(where the complainant is in confinement) the complaint will be investigated 
in order to explore whether a prima facie case of sexual harassment exists 
and whether intervention or some other assistance is required.
8.	
In case a prima facie case is established the UUCC/CCC/CPCC/ACC shall 
set up an enquiry committee of 3-5 members, with at least one member of the 
complainant’s category, as well as a member from outside the University.
9.	
The sub-committee must inform the accused in writing about the charges 
made against him/her and s/he should be given a period of five days from 
the date of receipt of the notification to respond to the charges.
10.	
During the enquiry procedure, the complainant and the accused will be 
called separately so as to ensure freedom of expression and an atmosphere 
19
University of Delhi Policy on Sexual Harassment
Page | 198
free of intimidation. The complainant will be allowed to be accompanied 
by one representative during the enquiry
11.	
The sub-committee must submit its report to the larger committee not later 
than 15 working days. The larger committee will discuss the report and 
make recommendations for punitive action if required.
12.	
The entire process of enquiry should be completed within one month.
13. The complainant or the accused may appeal to the Apex Committee if they 
are dissatisfied with the decision of the CCU/UUCC/CPCC.
NOTE:
1.	
A complainant has the right to go public if s/he so desires. Going public 
before giving in the complaint to the committee by the complainant should 
not prejudice the committee members. Once a complaint has been given 
to the committee, the complainant should preferably not go public till the 
enquiry is completed unless required.
2.	
Filing of a grievance/complaint shall not adversely affect the complainant’s 
status/job, salary/promotion, grades etc.
3.	
The UUCC/CCC/CPCC/ACC should make efforts to ensure that the 
complainants and the witnesses are not further victimised or discriminated 
against while it is dealing with the complaint. The committee shall take 
action against anyone who intimidates the complainant or members of the 
committee, during or after the enquiry.
4.	
Any committee member charged with sexual harassment in a written 
complaint must step down as member during the enquiry into that 
complaint.
5.	
Each UUCC/CCC/CPCC/ACC should form a small crisis intervention group 
comprising a group of committee members who should be readily accessible. 
20
University of Delhi Policy on Sexual Harassment
Page | 199
At least 75 percent of the crisis intervention group should be women. The 
telephone numbers of members should be widely publicised. The committee 
should have names and easy access to groups and/or individuals who can 
assist by providing legal, medical and/or psychological help.
2.8	
Redressal
1.	
UUCC/CCC/CPCC/ACC can ask the College/University to suspend the 
alleged harasser from an administrative post/classes if his/her presence is 
likely to interfere with the enquiry.
2.	
The victim of sexual harassment as per the Supreme Court judgment, will 
have the option to seek transfer of the perpetrator or their own transfer 
where applicable.
3.	
The Head of the institution upon receipt of the enquiry report, shall refer 
the same to the Governing Body/ Executive Council (EC) and institute 
disciplinary action on the basis of the recommendations of the Complaint 
Committee under relevant service rules.
4.	
The disciplinary action will be commensurate with the nature of the 
violation.
A.	In the case of University/College employees, disciplinary action could be in the 
form of:
	
i.	
Warning
	
ii.	
Written apology
	
iii.	
Bond of good behaviour
	
iv.	
Adverse remarks in the Confidential Report
21
University of Delhi Policy on Sexual Harassment
Page | 200
	
v.	
Debarring from supervisory duties
	
vi.	
Denial of membership of statutory bodies
	
vii.	
Denial of re-employment
	
viii.	
Stopping of increments/promotion
	
viii.	
Reverting, demotion
	
ix.	
Suspension
	
x.	
Dismissal
	
xi.	
Any other relevant mechanism.
B.	In case of students, disciplinary action could be in the form of:
	
i.	
Warning
	
ii.	
Written apology
	
iii.	
Bond of good behaviour
	
iv.	
Debarring entry into a hostel/ campus
 
v. 
Suspension for a specific period of time
	
vi.	
Withholding results
	
vii.	
Debarring from exams
	
viii.	
Debarring from contesting elections
	
ix.	
Debarring from holding posts such as member of Committee of Courses, 
membership of college union, etc.
	
x.	
Expulsion
	
xi.	
Denial of admission
	
xii.	
Declaring the harasser as “persona non grata” for a stipulated period of 
time
	
xiii.	
Any other relevant mechanism.
22
University of Delhi Policy on Sexual Harassment
Page | 201
(NOTE: The reasons for the action have to be provided in writing. Action will be 
taken against person(s) who try to pressurise the complainant in any way).
C.	In the case of third party harassment/outsider harassment, the 
University/College authorities shall initiate action by making a 
complaint with the appropriate authority.
5.	
Enhancement of disciplinary action, by the committee, could depend on 
factors such as the nature and extent of injury caused to the complainant, 
the impact of the violation on the institutions as a whole, the position of the 
harasser in the power hierarchy, repetition of offence etc.
6.	
Non-adversarial modes of redressal and resolution could also be considered 
in appropriate cases. Examples of this may be verbal warning, verbal 
apology, promise of good behaviour etc.
2.9	
Networking	
1.	
Committees could work closely with the Women’s Studies and 
Development Centre of the University of Delhi and Women Development 
Cells functioning in the Colleges.
2.	
If necessary, assistance may be sought from the Proctor, Dy. Proctor, Dean, 
Dy. Deans of Students’ welfare, Provosts of the hostels and other similar 
persons in authority.
3.	
Full time counsellors/social workers should be made available as support 
staff.
4.	
Committees should also have the referral support of empathetic legal, 
psycho-therapy and health experts for ready first aid, consultation and 
guidance.
23
University of Delhi Policy on Sexual Harassment
Page | 202
5.	
They should establish networks with legal experts, legal aid centres, 
counselling centres, health centres, police stations, Crimes against Women 
cells, women’s groups in the city and other organisations such as the 
National/State Commission for Women and National/State Human Rights 
Commission.
6.	
The ACC/UUCC/CPCC/CCC can identify persons as volunteers in the 
hostels, offices, colleges, institutions to help raise awareness.
2.10	
Monitoring and Review
1.	
The UUCC, CCC and CPCC will send annual reports to the Apex Complaints 
Committee.
2.	
The ACC will provide a brief annual report to the Executive Council on the 
cases monitored by them. In the above-mentioned reports, confidentiality 
of the complainants will be maintained. These reports will be accessible to 
the University community and other organisations that network with the 
University.
3.	
The ACC will organise a meeting once every year for all members of CCC/
UUCC/CPCC to meet and discuss their experiences on the functioning of 
the committees.
2.11	
Support Staff
1.	
The Women’s Studies and Development Centre will function as the 
Secretariat for the Apex Committee. The WSDC should therefore be 
provided with funds, additional staff, and adequate space meant exclusively 
for this purpose. The secretariat should also include a counsellor.
24
University of Delhi Policy on Sexual Harassment
Page | 203
2.	
The UUCC, CCC and CPCC should also be provided with a budget.
3.	
All Support Staff must follow norms of confidentiality.
2.12	
AMENDMENTS TO THE POLICY
On the basis of their experience of the working of the policy, the UUCCs, CCCs and 
CPCC will have the power to make recommendations to the ACC about changes 
in the policy. The ACC after adequate consultation with all the UUCCs, CCCs and 
CPCC can make recommendations to the EC about changes in the policy, as and when 
required in keeping with the preamble and objectives of the policy.
25
University of Delhi Policy on Sexual Harassment
Page | 204
PART THREE
3.1	
FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
The University will raise a fund for the functioning of the Committees by collecting a 
fixed annual charge of Rs. 10/- (out of which Rs. 2/- to be sent to the University) each 
year from every member of the University - Teachers and Students.
26
University of Delhi Policy on Sexual Harassment
Page | 205
PART FOUR
4.1	
SUGGESTIONS FOR ADDITIONAL ADMINISTRATIVE 
MEASURES
It will be borne in mind that the problem of sexual harassment is aggravated by lack 
of sufficient lighting, poorly constructed roads, bad traffic regulation and lack of other 
facilities. To rectify this current situation we feel that it is necessary to outline the 
security measures that can accompany the policy guidelines. Thus addressing both 
prevention and redressal of the problem.
1.	
Effective lighting and traffic regulation of all roads, institutions and 
surrounding areas in the university.
NOTE:
Due to inadequate lighting and lack of traffic regulation it is easier for those who 
harass on the streets and other places to harass and make a get away. It compounds 
the problem of resistance to harassment as well.
The Proctor’s office in consultation and coordination with the Apex Committee and 
other concerned agencies will work towards achieving that:
1.	
Roads are adequately lit.
2.	
Traffic within the Campus is regulated.
3.	
Co-ordination with the Delhi Police is maintained in order to uphold the policy 
on sexual harassment.
27
University of Delhi Policy on Sexual Harassment
Page | 206
Other Preventive measures
1.	
Transportation - to be taken up with the transport authority of Delhi.
a.	
Shuttle buses should be started to provide safe transportation to students 
and other employees who work on campus after office hours and on 
holidays.
b.	
University specials should be increased.
c.	
Co-ordination is reviewed with concerned bodies to sensitise drivers and 
conductors to deal with cases of sexual harassment and stalking.
2.	
Delhi University Hostels
a.	
Every hostel authority must act as per the policy measures.
b.	
The complaints brought forth by the hostel residents under this policy will be 
forwarded to the UCCC/CCC.or if required, the Apex Committee.
c.	
The Apex Committee should work towards ensuring safe Off-Campus 
Accommodation.
28
University of Delhi Policy on Sexual Harassment
Page | 207
APPENDIX ONE
PROCEDURE FOR THE CONSTITUTION OF THE 
COMMITTEES
CCC/UUCC
Section A. The First Committee: (Year I)
Member Secretary of the Apex Complaints Committee (viz. the Chairperson of The 
Women’s Studies Development Centre) shall send a notice to each Principal or Head 
of Department/Institution to initiate the process of election to the first complaints 
committee.
Two representatives each will be elected from amongst the Teachers, Non­Teaching 
Staff, of each College/University Unit. Three Students will be elected through a two-
tier process of election. First a representative to the Gender Sensitising Committee will 
be elected by each class in the College/Unit. The members of the Gender Sensitising 
Committee will then elect three representatives from amongst themselves.
1.	
Election Schedule
Last date for nomination	
:
(duly proposed and seconded)	 :	 1st week of August
Withdrawal	
:	 2nd week of August
Polling	
:	 3rd week of August
A minimum interval of three working days should be given between the stages. In 
any case, the whole process shall be completed on or before 25 th August.
29
University of Delhi Policy on Sexual Harassment
Page | 208
2.	
Mode of Election
a.	
Polling Time: One day each for Teachers and Karamcharis and for the 
elections of student representatives by the GSC. The first stage for the 
election of the student representatives, i.e. electing from each class a 
member of the GSC, can be done over a period of a week
b.	
Each voter in a category can cast as many votes as there are seats, one each 
in favour of different candidates from his/her category - Student, Teacher, 
Non­Teaching Staff.
c.	
Election will be through secret ballot.
d.	
The two teachers/non-teaching staff and three students polling maximum 
number of votes will be elected as representatives of the category, 
provided that:
	
i)	
Representatives in each category will include a minimum of 50% of 
women.
	
ii)	
The representatives of non-teaching staff must include at least one 
from Group D.
	
iii)	
The student representatives include at least one from 2nd year in 
the CCC and at least one each from the post-graduate and research 
students in the UUCC.
	
iv)	
The elections will be conducted by the Principal / Senior most Head 
of Department as Returning Officer and Secretary, Staff Council / a 
Senior Professor as Presiding Officer.
	
v)	
At the time of counting the votes a nominee of each candidate can be 
present as an observer.
3.	
Nature of Campaigning
Any campaigning against the tenets and spirit of the policy will lead to disqualification 
of the candidates by the presiding officer.
30
University of Delhi Policy on Sexual Harassment
Page | 209
4.	
Constitution of Committees
The 1st meeting of seven elected members will be called before the 5th of September 
by the senior most Teacher elected. The seven members will elect a Chairperson (a 
woman) and Member Secretary for the year. They will also make a panel (in order 
of preference) of at least four individuals from outside the College/University Unit 
with known contribution to women’s issues. Immediately after the meeting (within 
three days) the Chairperson must write to the first two individuals on the panel 
requesting them to give their consent to be members of the Committee. This whole 
process of co-opting two members from outside the College/University Unit (of 
which at least one should be a woman), should be completed preferably by the 20th 
of September. The two co-opted members will remain on the Committee for a period 
of two years.
Section B: Subsequent Committees
1.	
For Teachers/Non-Teaching Staff.
a.	
In the following year (II), the elected representative E1who had polled 
the highest number of votes will continue and the other representative E2 
will be replaced by a representative N1 nominated by the entire existing 
Committee, subject to the conditions laid down in mode of election 2(d)(i) 
and 2(d)(ii) of Section-A.
b.	
In the following year (III), the elected representative E1 will be replaced by 
an elected representative E3 (subject to the conditions laid down in mode 
of election 2(d)(i) and 2(d)(ii).
c.	
In the following year (IV), the nominated representative N1 will be replaced 
by a freshly nominated representative N2.
	
Thus elections will be held in alternate years, interspersed by nomination.
	
Nomination from within the institution, which will take place in alternate years, 
should be completed not later than the 15th of August.
31
University of Delhi Policy on Sexual Harassment
Page | 210
2.	
For Students.
(a)	
College Complaints Committees (CCC)
In year II
	
i)	
The second year student who had polled the highest number of votes 
(and is promoted to Third Year) will continue to be a member of the 
committee in Year II.
	
ii)	
The other two students will be replaced by fresh elections subject to 
2(d)(i) and 2(d)(iii).
This procedure is to be repeated every year.
(b)	
University Units Complaints Committees (UUCC)
	
In Year II
	
i)	
The student with the highest number of votes and who has continued to 
remain a regular student of the University in the same course, will remain a 
member of the Committee.
	
ii)	
The other two students will be replaced by fresh election subject to provisions 
in 2(d)(i) and 2(d)(iii).
This procedure is to be repeated every year.
NOTE:
Subsequent elections to the CCC/UUCC from all categories will be conducted by the 
Chairperson and the Member Secretary.
In subsequent years the election of the Chairperson and Member Secretary will be from 
amongst all its members (including those co-opted from outside the University).
(c)	
Central Pool Complaints Committee (CPCC)
	
Section A: The First Committee: (Year One)
32
University of Delhi Policy on Sexual Harassment
Page | 211
	
i)	
Two representatives each will be elected from Group A, B, C and D 
employees, of which at least one in each category shall be a woman 
representative.
 
ii) 
The first meeting will be called by the senior most representative from 
Group A.
	
iii)	
The eight elected members will elect a Chairperson and a Member Secretary 
for the year.
	
iv)	
The elected members shall form a panel of 5 persons from outside their unit 
with known contribution to women’s issues, 3 of which shall be co-opted 
into the committee as prescribed for the CCC/UUCC.
Section B: Subsequent years
i)	
In the year (II), the representative E1 who had polled the highest number of 
votes will continue and the other representative E2 shall be replaced by a 
representative N1 nominated by the entire existing committee, subject to the 
conditions laid down in 1(a) of Section-B
ii)	
In the following year (III) the elected representative E1 shall be replaced by freshly 
elected representative E3, subject to the condition in 1(a) of Section-B.
iii)	
In the following year, the nominated representative N1 shall be replaced by a 
freshly nominated representative N2.
This procedure will be repeated every year.
NOTE:
1.	 The election in the first year will be conducted by the Registrar
2.	 The mode of election will be the same as for the CCC/UUCC.
3.	 In subsequent years the election/nomination to the CPCC will be 
conducted by the Chairperson and Member Secretary of the CPCC
33
University of Delhi Policy on Sexual Harassment
Page | 212
4.	 In subsequent years the election of the Chairperson and the Member 
Secretary will be from amongst all the members of the committee 
(including those co-opted from outside).
(d)	
The Apex Complaints Committee (ACC)
	
Section A : The First Committee: (Year One)
1.	 Two teachers, two non-teaching staff, and three students will be elected 
respectively from an electoral college consisting of all the representatives from 
that category in all the CCC/UUCC/CPCC, subject to at least 50% women in 
each category.
2.	 The electoral college for each category shall consist of all the representative 
members who are elected/nominated to the CCC/UUCC/CPCC by the 31st of 
August. (This will not include the co-opted members).
3.	 Of the non-teaching staff, at least one each should be from the category of 
Group D.
4.	 Of the student representatives there should be at least one from each of the 
categories - Under Graduate, Post Graduate, and Researcher.
5.	 The process of election, conducted by the Chairperson of the WSDC (who is the 
Member Secretary of the ACC), should be completed by the 20th September.
6.	 Constitution of the Committee: The first meeting of the seven elected members 
and the VC’s nominee from the Proctorial team should be called by the Member 
Secretary in the last week of September.
	
The nine members will nominate to the committee a woman teacher from the 
University who has demonstrated active concern on gender issues. In addition, 
they will prepare a panel of five persons (of whom at least three should be 
women) from outside the University, with known contribution to gender 
issues. From this panel the Vice-Chancellor should invite a woman to be the 
Chairperson of the Apex Committee, and one other person as a member of the 
committee. They should be nominated for a period of two years.
34
University of Delhi Policy on Sexual Harassment
Page | 213
	
In addition, one person with known contribution to gender issues, shall be 
nominated to the Committee by the Vice Chancellor.
	
The entire process of Constitution of the ACC should be completed by the 15th 
of October each year.
Section B: Subsequent years
1.	
For teachers and non-teaching staff
a)	 In the following year (II), the representative E1 who had polled the highest 
number of votes will continue and the other representative E2 will be replaced 
by a representative N1 nominated from the electoral college for that category 
by the entire existing committee subject to the conditions laid down in mode of 
election 2(d)(i) and 2(d)(ii) of Section-A.
b)	In the following year (III), the elected representative E1 will be replaced by 
an elected representatives E3 (subject to the conditions laid down in mode of 
election 2(d)(i) and 2(d)(ii) of Section-A.
c)	 In the following year (IV), the nominated representative N1 will be replaced by 
a freshly nominated representative N2.
Thus elections will be held in alternate years, interspersed by nomination.
2.	
For Students
Elections will be held every year.
NOTE:
1.	
The membership of co-opted persons in CCC/UUCC/CPCC, can be renewed after 
every two years by mutual consent of the other committee members.
2. 
A casual vacancy in any category will, within ten days, be filled temporarily by 
nomination of a person from that category by the entire committee until a regular 
35
University of Delhi Policy on Sexual Harassment
Page | 214
selection can be held. This arrangement should not ordinarily continue beyond a 
period of three months, but not beyond six months in any case.
3.	
No member of the Apex Committee should be simultaneously a member of 
CCC/UUCC/CPCC. The members elected/nominated from CCC/UUCC/
CPCC to the ACC will cease to be members of the former. The vacancies 
so created in the CCC/UUCC/CPCC will be filled by nomination, of a 
person from the relevant category, by the entire existing committee until 
the position is filled by the regular method of selection in the next academic 
session.
4.	
If for an election to a CCC/UUCC/CPCC/ACC there are no candidates 
from a particular category then the existing committee shall nominate a 
person(s) from that category for that year.
5.	
If, in the case of membership to be decided on the basis of highest number of 
votes, both members had equal number of votes, or were elected unopposed, 
then the decision can be taken by drawing of lots in the Committee.
6.	
A member of the University, who has previously been convicted for sexual 
harassment shall not be eligible for membership of any of the complaints 
committees.
7.	
Only regular students of the University shall be eligible to stand for election, 
vote or be nominated to the committee although the current ex-students 
shall have the right to approach the committee in case of any complaint.
8.	
Only permanent employees (teachers or non-teaching staff) shall be eligible 
to stand for elections or to be nominated to the Committees, although 
temporary/ad- hoc or contractual employees shall have the right to vote.
36
University of Delhi Policy on Sexual Harassment
Page | 215
STRUCTURE OF COMPLAINTS COMMITTEES/CENTRE
37
 
 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
University of Delhi Policy on Sexual Harassment 
 
 
STRUCTURE OF COMPLAINTS COMMITTEES/CENTRE 
 
 
APEX COMPLAINTS COMMITTEE 
1MS+1P+2T+2NT+3S+1Co+2NP(VC)+1N(VC) 
(min. 8 women out of 13)  
T&NT (1elected + 1 nominated),  
S(all elected, 1 UG, 1PG, 1R) 
INDIRECTLY ELECTED BODY 
 
 
 
 
 UNIVERSITY UNIT COMPLAINTS 
COLLEGE COMPLAINTS  
 
COMMITTEE 
COMMITTEE 
2T+2NT+3S+2Co (min. 5 women out of 9) 
2T+2NT+3S+2Co 
 
T&NT (1 elected + 1 nominated) 
(min. 5 women out of 9) 
 
 
T&NT (1 elected + 1 nominated) 
           S (all elected, min. 1PG,1R) 
S (all elected, min. 1 2nd Yr) 
 
 
DIRECTLY ELECTED BODY 
DIRECTLY ELECTED BODY 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MS  = Member Secretary 
 
T     =  Teachers 
P  
=  Proctorial team 
NT  =  Non-Teaching Staff 
S  
=  Students 
UG  = Under-graduate 
PG  =  Post-graduate 
R  =  Researcher 
Co  =  Co-opted 
N     = Nominated 
NP  =  Nominated from panel 
A       = Group A Employees 
B      = Group B Employees 
C     = Group C Employees 
D     = Group D Employees 
         
CENTRAL POOL COMPLAINTS 
COMMITTEE 
2A+2B+2C+2D+3Co  
(min. 6 women out of 11) 
A,B,C,D(1 elected+ 1 nominated) 
DIRECTLY ELECTED BODY 
University of Delhi Policy on Sexual Harassment
Page | 216
38
 
28 
 
 
 
 
University of Delhi Policy on Sexual Harassment 
 
 
STRUCTURE OF COMPLAINTS COMMITTEE/CENTRE 
 
• 
At least half 
APEX COMPLAINT 
1+1+7+1+2+1 (at least 8 women including  
the number of members 
COMMITTEE 
 the Chairperson} 
 
of each committee  
 
shall be women  
 
• 
Chairperson shall always 
T 
NT        S    Co   N(VC)  
 
be a woman 
INDIRECT  
(1E+1N) (1E+1N)   (3E)  (1)   (2+1) 
 
                                                               ELECTION 
 
OF 
 
APEX COMMITTEE 
 
BY THE ELECTORATE 
 
{1 UG, 1 PG, 1 RES} 
 
(OF CCC, UUCC and CPCC)                                                   
 
by 
 
 
 
 
College Complaint Committees 
University Unit Complaint Committees 
 
 
 
 
 
7+2    7+2    7+2    7+2    7+2 
7+2    7+2    7+2    7+2    7+2 
 
 
 
 
W 
– 
Women 
                            Central Pool Complaints Committee 
T 
– 
Teachers 
 
 
NT 
– 
Non-teaching 
 
S 
– 
Students 
 
E 
– 
Elected 
 
N 
– 
Nominated 
                                                                 8+3 
Co 
– 
Co-opted 
 
RES – 
Researcher 
 
PG 
– 
Post-Graduate 
 
UG 
– 
Under-Graduate 
 
 
STRUCTURE OF COMPLAINTS COMMITTEE/CENTRE
University of Delhi Policy on Sexual Harassment
Page | 217
APPENDIX TWO
DEPARTMENT CLUSTERS FOR UNIVERSITY COMMITTEES
1.	
Faculty of Arts (a) Language Departments (English, Hindi, Sanskrit, Modern 
Indian Languages and Literary Studies, Urdu, Persian, Arabic, Germanic 
ands Romance Studies, Punjabi, Seminar Library, Women’s Studies and 
Development Centre, Directorate of Hindi Medium Implementation Board)
2.	
Faculty of Arts (b) Other (Philosophy, Library and Information Science, Buddhist 
Studies, Linguistics, Psychology, Central Reference Library, Arts Faculty Library, 
Computerised Library Services Department)
3.	
Faculty of Math Sciences (Mathematics, Operational Research, Computer Science, 
Statistics)
4.	
Faculty of Social Sciences (a) Delhi School of Economics (Economics, Sociology, 
Geography, Ratan Tata Library)
5.	
Faculty of Social Sciences (b) All others (History, Political Science, Social Work, 
African Studies, Adult Continuing Education and Extension, Chinese and Japanese 
Studies, Braille Library, Developing Countries Research Centre)
6.	
Faculty of Commerce and Business Studies
7.	
Faculty of Music and Fine Arts (including Music Library)
8.	
Faculty of Education (CIE, Experimental Basic School, CIE Library, DU Social 
Centre School)
9.	
Faculty of Management Studies (including FMS Library)
10.	
Faculty of Law (Campus Law Centre, Law Centre I, Law Centre II, Law Faculty 
Library)
11.	
South Campus (a) Faculty of Applied Social Sciences (S.P. Jain Management 
Studies, Applied Psychology, Financial Studies, Business Economics, Applied 
Operational Research, Institute of Informatics and Communication,
39
University of Delhi Policy on Sexual Harassment
Page | 218
12.	
South Campus (b) Faculty of Interdisciplinary and Applied Sciences (Biochemistry, 
Micro Biology, Genetics, Electronic Science, Bio-Physics, Plant Molecular 
Biology)
13.	
South Campus (c) Others ( English , Hindi, Sanskrit, Philosophy, History, Political 
Science, Slavonic and Finno-Ugrian Studies, Centres for: Applied Behavioural and 
Action Research, Canadian Studies, Director and Related Software Technology, 
Environmental Management of Degraded Ecosystems, Geo- Resources, Inter 
disciplinary Studies of Mountain and Hill Environment, Genetic Manipulation of 
Crop Plants, South Zone Library)
14.	
Science Departments (a) (Department of Physics, Botany, Zoology, Geology, 
Anthropology, Computer Centre, University Services and Instrumentation Centre, 
CPDHE, Science Education and Communication)
15.	
Science Departments (b) (Department of Chemistry, B.R. Ambedkar Centre, 
Agro-Chemical and Pest Management, Central Science Library)
NOTE:
1. 
Other Institutions such as WUS, Vice- Chancellor’s Office, Establishment Finance, etc. 
will come under the Central Pool Complaints Committee
2.	
Medical Sciences, Engineering and Technology are located in Colleges namely 
UCMS, VPCCI, LHMC, MAMC and LNJP, G.B. Pant, NSIT, DCE, Tibia, College 
of Nursing and Nehru Homeopathic Institute etc. and will therefore have their 
own College Complaints Committees. The School for Correspondence Courses 
will have its own Committee.
40
Page | 219
Appendix 12
Recommended Procedure for Cross Examination
In the Dr. Pushkar Saxena v. Govt. of NCT of Delhi & Ors. WP(C) No. 7592/ 2001 
decided on 16.5.2012, the Hon. High Court of Delhi has directed that in order to ensure 
that “there is no possibility of witnesses getting influenced on account of the presence 
of the respondent at the time of their cross-examination, the witnesses may be cross-
examined through a female defence assistant. If the respondent does not want to 
engage the services of such a female defence assistant, then the exercise of the right of 
cross-examination would require the petitioner to submit a questionnaire, giving the 
questions he wanted the witnesses to answer, and the answers to the questions will 
be obtained by the Inquiry Committee.” The Court also directed that the respondent 
will not be present at that time of either examination or cross-examination of the 
witnesses. This procedure was upheld by the Hon. Supreme Court In its ruling on SLP 
No. 23060/2009 and the Hon. High Court of Delhi in the B.N. Ray vs Ramjas College 
&Ors judgement on 21 May 2012.
The Committee thinks that the procedure laid down in the Hon. Supreme Court’s 
guidelines (SLP No. 23060/2009, and the Bidyut Chakraborty (Prof.) v. Delhi University 
& Ors.: 2009 VI AD (Delhi)) for cross-examination must be adopted as the procedure 
at educational institutions in general. The defining points of this procedure is that 
neither the complainant nor her witnesses shall, if they so wish, be subjected to a face-
to face- encounter with the charged person(s) whether during examination or cross-
examination, and that cross-examination may be done through a cross-examination or 
a questionnaire. This entails that witnesses for the complainant need not be examined 
in the presence of the charged person.
i.	
At the first examination of the complainant, the Complaints Committee shall 
formally enquire from the complainant whether she wishes to avoid a face-to-
face encounter of herself and/or her witnesses with the respondent, including 
Page | 220
during the examination and cross-examination of herself and/or her witnesses, 
and record her response thereto.
ii.	
The order of examination of witnesses to shall first be the list of person(s) named 
by the complainant, followed by their cross-examination on behalf of/by the 
respondent. The Complaints Committee shall then examine the witnesses named 
by the respondent, and after that facilitate their cross-examination on behalf of/
by the the complainant. Official and other witnesses may be examined at any 
time. Provided further that the Complaints Committee shall provide one further 
opportunity for the complainant and the respondent to add to their respective 
lists of witnesses, before embarking on the cross-examination of witnesses of 
either party.
iii.	
In the event that the complainant has indicated that she and/ or her witnesses 
should not be put face-to-face with the respondent during their examination and 
cross-examination, the Complaints Committee shall communicate the same to 
the respondent. In such an eventuality, the Complaints Committee shall give the 
respondent an option of nominating a woman Examination Assistant.
iv.	
Such an Examination Assistant may be present during the examination of 
the the complainant’s witnesses as an observer, and shall also conduct the 
cross-examination of the complainant’s witnesses. Provided further that the 
Examination Assistant must be an employee of the workplace in which the 
respondent is an employee, and should not have been found to be guilty of 
sexual harassment, or been a respondent to a Complaints Committee-instituted 
conciliation procedure.
v.	
In the event that the respondent cannot or does not nominate an Examination 
Assistant, he may submit a list of questions to the Complaints Committee to 
administer to the complainant and her witnesses for the purposes of cross-
examination.
Page | 221
vi.	
In individual cases, the Complaints Committee may feel it necessary to protect 
the identity of any or all of the complainant’s witnesses. In such an event, the 
Complaints Committee shall guarantee the anonymity of all such witnesses 
produced by the complainant and shall allow cross-examination only by written 
questionnaire. In such exigent circumstances, the Complaints Committee shall 
provide the statements of witnesses, without disclosing their names and identities 
to the respondent, and shall obtain the answers to the questionnaire and supply 
them to the respondent.
vii.	 If at any given point of time, the Complaints Committee finds that the respondent 
has attempted to adversely influence the inquiry by threatening , harassing or 
intimidating either the aggrieved woman or any witness, it may recommend 
action to be taken as prescribed under Rule 15.
Page | 222
Appendix 13
Conciliation
Clause 10 of the Act addresses ‘conciliation’ between the aggrieved woman and the 
respondent as the possible first step in case of a complaint, to be initiated only if the 
aggrieved woman asks for it. In order for the Act to be implemented fairly, it is i. A 
complainant may submit a written request for conciliation within 2 weeks of the date 
of the initial complaint.
i.	
In case the aggrieved woman requests for conciliation, the chairperson\presiding 
officer of the ICC/LCC shall within a period of one week of the receipt of request 
for conciliation from the complainant, summon the complainant in order to 
ensure that she is not opting for it under any form of coercion/threat.
ii.	
On satisfaction of the above, the chairperson\presiding officer may herself 
carry out the conciliation or nominate one member from the Committee to carry 
out this process who shall then provide detailed information to both parties 
regarding the conciliation process.
iii.	
Conciliation shall not include any component of monetary settlement or 
pecuniary benefit to either of the parties, but may include a verbal or written 
apology, counselling of either party, bond of good conduct by the respondent, 
monitoring of the respondent’s good conduct by the conciliator, or any other 
reasonable relief agreed to by the aggrieved woman.
iv.	
Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being 
in force, the conciliator and the parties shall keep confidential all matters 
relating to the conciliation proceedings. Confidentiality shall extend also to the 
settlement agreement, except where its disclosure is necessary for purposes of 
implementation and enforcement.
v.	
The conciliation process shall be completed within a period of 30 days from the 
time of receiving the request for the same from the complainant.
Page | 223
vi.	
The aggrieved woman may opt out of the conciliation process at any point in 
these thirty days, without any adverse inference being drawn against her for this 
decision.
Therefore necessary that a complaint of sexual harassment in the workplace first be 
established as a complaint that falls within the ambit of the Act before any conciliation 
be attempted. The following guidelines are recommended.
4.3.2.2	Cross-examination
Cross-examination of witnesses and manner of Enquiry: A vexed issue for most existing 
ICCs is how to guarantee the principles of natural justice for both the complainant 
and the accused - i.e. to provide a reasonable opportunity to examine and cross-
examine witnesses - and at the same time ensure that the procedure does not lead to the 
intimidation of, and trauma to, the complainant and/or her witnesses in a complaint 
of sexual harassment. This has been the subject of two important court rulings, which 
have recognized the specific nature of sexual harassment and the psychological effects 
it has. A detailed note on the recommended procedure for Cross Examination is at  
Appendix XI
4.3.2.3 Accountability
The UGC must ensure that heads of educational institutions must mandatorily be 
extended full support to see that the recommendations of the ICC are implemented 
in a timely manner. With regard to the implementation of the recommendations 
of disciplinary action, the best practice should be one that treats them as binding, 
and any dilution or enhancement of the action recommended must be justified in 
writing. Furthermore, the educational institution must afford all possible institutional 
resources to the functioning of the Complaints Committee, including office and 
Page | 224
building infrastructure (computers, photocopiers, audio-video equipment, etc.), staff 
(qualified stenographers, typists, office assistants -- to be appointed on a permanent 
basis, and counselling and legal services) as well as a sufficient allocation of financial 
resources.
Annual Report of the ICC- Every educational institution must mandatorily submit 
to the UGC an Annual Report in compliance with Sections 20 and 22 of the Act. This 
report must contain, at the minimum, the following information:
a.	
Number of complaints of sexual harassment received in the preceding year
b.	
Nature of the act of sexual harassment (physical, verbal, through electronic 
communication, etc.)
c.	
Position on the hierarchy of the aggrieved woman vis-a-vis the respondent
d.	
Number of cases in which the aggrieved woman was SC/ST/OBC/minority.
e.	
Number of complaints disposed during that year
f.	
Number of complaints disposed within the required time frame.
g.	
Number of cases in which conciliation was sought, and an agreement reached.
h.	
Nature of other relief sought.
i.	
Number of cases where the accusation was upheld.
j.	
Nature of penalty imposed
k.	
Time gap between the submission of the Complaints Committee report and 
disciplinary action.
l.	
Number of cases involving repeat offences.
m.	
Number of cases where penalty was imposed for attempting to harass or 
intimidate the aggrieved woman/ witnesses.
n.	
Number of complaints proved to be false/malicious
o.	
Number of trainings/awareness campaigns/workshops against sexual 
harassment carried out within the organization.
Page | 225
p.	
Any method used to educate employees about sexual harassment, the Act and 
the Rules.
q.	
Number of complaints where conciliation was successfully carried out
r.	
Nature of action taken by the employer/district officer.
s.	
Number of cases where appeals were filed, as well as number of cases where 
appeals were upheld.
Such compliance could be tied to the pre-requisites for allocation of grants from 
the UGC.
Page | 226
Appendix 14
Legal Literacy Workshops on Laws and Rights
Workshop One: Rights under the Constitution
1.	
An overview of the Constitution
2.	
Fundamental Rights guaranteed by the Constitution of India.
3.	
Application of the Constitution in a person’s day-to-day interactions with the 
State.
4.	
Constitutional remedies (Writs, PILs etc.)
5.	
What kinds of law, complaints bodies and other institutions offer redress? 
What is the difference between criminal and civil law? For example, what is the 
advantage of filing a criminal complaint of domestic violence (e.g. IPC) as well 
as civil complaint (e.g. PWDVA)?
Workshop Two: Securing Rights: Interactions in a Police Station
1.	
How to file a complaint, First Information Report (FIR)?
2.	
What to do if an FIR is not filed?
3.	
What to do when faced with detention, and arrest?
4.	
How to get bail, quash a charge and/or ascertain my rights during interrogation?
5.	
What legal remedies do I have if faced with police torture or other forms of 
custodial violence?
6.	
What are my rights if a police officer wants to search my body or my premises?
7.	
What are my rights during interrogation?
8.	
Do I have a right to legal assistance and how can I obtain it?
Page | 227
Workshops Three and Four: Resisting Gendered Violence
1.	
What legal and institutional recourse do I have if I face violence from my partner 
or a member of my family? Do I have right to residence in natal or my matrimonial 
home, if I face domestic violence?
2.	
What legal remedies do I have if I am sexually harassed at the workplace?
3.	
What are the laws on rape and other sexual violence? What must I do to complain 
against sexual violence?
4.	
What legal support can I request if I am sexually harassed or raped?
5.	
What to do if a criminal case is filed after exercising my right to choice in 
marriage or an intimate consensual relationship? Will the habeas corpus petition 
be available to me?
6.	
What do I do if I am discriminated against on the basis of my sexual 
orientation?
Workshops Five and Six: Equal Opportunity legislations
1.	
What are the laws against caste discrimination, and how may I complain against 
caste atrocities?
2.	
How do I file a complaint with the NHRC, SC/ST Commission and/or National 
Women’s Commission? What are the procedures for getting a caste certificate? 
What are the procedures for getting compensation under the PoA Act?
3.	
What are the rules in my college or university about equal opportunity and 
against discrimination?
4.	
What do I do if I wish to lodge a complaint in my institution?
5.	
What are labour rights? How to implement laws on minimum wages? What are 
the laws on unionization? What is the legal position on labour strikes, issues of 
dignity of workers, and the issue safety at workplace?
Page | 228
6.	
What are disability rights? How may I ensure equality of opportunity and 
participation? How do I ensure safe working conditions, access to information 
& materials, and right to dignity? How do I complain against discrimination 
against me?
Workshop Seven: Freedom of Speech
1.	
What is the law on sedition?
2.	
How is it related to freedom of speech? Can I be arrested for writing a comment 
on facebook?
3.	
Can I be arrested for circulating a cartoon on email? What can I do if my writing 
or artistic work is banned?
4.	
How may one think of the relationship between cyber law, freedom of expression 
and my right to privacy/ safety?
5.	
What are the laws regulating pornography?
6.	
What recourse do I have if I am being stalked on the cyberspace, if a degrading 
MSS is made and circulated on the cyberspace against my will and/ or consent 
and/ or abusive emails are sent to me?
Workshop Eight: Emergency Laws
1.	
What is the AFSPA? How may I bring a complaint against the security forces 
when tortured, raped and/or assaulted?
2.	
What are terror laws? Is there racial profiling? What do I do if I am victim of 
racial profile?
3.	
What do I do if I am victimized as a human rights defender?
4.	
What are the laws, and procedures around curfews, protests and dharnas? What 
do I do if I am sexually harassed during a protest?
5.	
When are police permissions necessary and when are these an abuse of the law?
Page | 229
Workshop Nine: Rights of Minorities
1.	
What is racial profiling? What are my rights as a religious minority?
2.	
What can I do if I am discriminated on the basis of my identity?
3.	
What can I do when faced with hate speech?
4.	
What can I do if I face the threat of communal violence?
5.	
What can I do if a landlord refuses to rent me a place, an employer refuses me a 
job or I face any form of social exclusion for practicing my religion?
6.	
How do I respect religious diversity? How do I ensure the rights of other religious 
communities?
Workshop Ten: Right to Information, Securing Identity Documentations
1.	
How can I file a right to information petition? What is the procedure? What 
information can I seek? What is the appeal structure? How do I use the information 
I get?
2.	
What are my citizenship rights? How do I get identification papers?
3.	
Am I a head of the household as a married woman or a single woman?
4.	
What do I do if I am sexually harassed and discriminated on the basis of my 
identity, when I apply for any form of official identification? Do I have to change 
my name if I am married?1
1This set of legal literacy workshops has been adapted from Appendix Three of the JNU Report to recommend 
measures to prevent gender based violence and discrimination in JNU, in the aftermath of the incident of July 
31st 2013, set up by the VC and chaired by Prof. Sudha Pai.
Page | 230
Appendix 15
Select Bibliography
Ambedkar, B.R. “The Hindu Code Bill” and other select writings in Dr. Babasaheb 
Ambedkar: Writings and Speeches, Education Department, Government of 
Maharashtra.
Bhasin, Kamla, ‘Gender Basics, What is Patriarchy?’ Delhi, Women Unlimited, 1993.
Bhasin, Kamla, and Khan S Nighat, ‘Gender Basics, Feminism and its Relevance in 
South Asia’, Delhi: Women Unlimited, 1999.
Bhasin, Kamla, ‘Gender Basics, Exploring Masculinity’, Delhi: Women Unlimited, 
2004.
Bhasin, Kamla, ‘Gender Basics, Understanding Gender’, Delhi: Women Unlimited, 
2000.
Bhasin, Kamla, ‘Bhala yeh jodar kya hein?’ (Hindi), Delhi: Jagori, 2000.
Hameed, Syeda, ‘The Plan for Women”, SPOTLIGHT Centre for Policy Analysis, New 
Delhi, 2013, Vol. II, No. 02, pp - 21-27.
Chakravarti, Uma (2004) . Gendering Caste: Through a Feminist Lens. Kolkata: Stree.
Chakravarti, Uma, Pratiksha Baxi, Suman Bisht and Janaki braham. Reclaiming 
Spaces: Gender Politics on a University Campus in Constellations of Violence: 
Feminist Interventions in South Asia by Radhika Coomaraswamy and Nimanthi 
Ranjasingham, Women Unlimited, 2007.
Chatterjee, Partha. ‘The Nationalist Resolution of Women’s Question’, in K. Sangari 
and S. Vaid (eds), Recasting Women, Essays in Colonial History, New Delhi: Kali 
for Women. 1993
Page | 231
Chenoy, Anuradha, ‘Sexism and Militarism Need Each Other’ SPOTLIGHT Centre for 
Policy Analysis, New Delhi, 2013, Vol. II, No. 02, pp - 37-44
Chopra, Radhika. From Violence to Supportive Practices, Families, Gender and Masculinities 
in India, New Delhi: UNIFEM2003
Connell, Robert W. Masculinities, Cambridge: Polity Press, 2005.
Devika, J. ‘Bodies Gone Away: The Abjection of Sexuality in Development
Discourse in Contemporary Kerala’, Indian Journal of Gender Studies, 2009, Vol. 16, no. 
1, pp. 21-46
Ghosh, Jayati 2008. Never done and poorly paid: Women’s work in India. New Delhi: 
Women Unlimited.
Gupta, Nilanjana. ‘Just Switch Off! Television: Creating the “modern” Woman’, Social 
Scientist, 2000, Vol. 28, Nos. 3-4, pp. 61-70
Gururani, Shubhra. ‘Forests of Pleasure and Plan: Gender Practices of Labour and 
Livelihood in the Forests of the Kumaon Himalayas, India’, Gender, Place and 
Culture, 2002, Vol. 9, no. 3, pp. 229-43
John, Mary E. (ed.) Women’s Studies in India: A Reader New Delhi: Penguin, 2008.
Malhotra, Anju and Mark Mather. ‘Do Schooling and Work Empower Women in 
Developing Countries? Gender and Domestic Decisions in Sri Lanka’, Sociological 
Forum, 1997, Vol. 12, no. 4, pp. 599-630
O’Hanlon, Rosalind. “Issues of Masculinity in North India History’, Indian Journal of 
Gender Studies, 1997, Vol. 4, pp. 1-19
Pateman, Carol. The Disorder of Women: Democracy, Feminism and Political Discourse, 
Cambridge: Polity Press, 1989.
Page | 232
Patel, Vibhuti, “Sexual Harassment at the Work Place’, in Rehana Ghadially (ed.), Urban 
Women in Contemporary India: A Reader, New Delhi: Sage Publications, 2007
Phadke, Shilpa, ‘Dangerous Liasons: Women and Men, Risk and Reputation in 
Mumbai’, Economic and Political Weekly, 2007, Vol. XIII, no. 17, pp. 1510-18
Ranade, Shilpa, ‘The Way She Moves. Mapping the Everyday Production of Gender- space’, 
Economic and Political Weekly, 2007, Vol. XIII, no. 17, pp. 1519-26
Rege, Sharmila (ed.) Against the Madness of Manu: B.R. Ambedkar’s Writings on 
Brahmanical Patriarchy. New Delhi: Navayana. 2013.
Sangari, Kumkum and Sudesh Vaid. Recasting Women: Essays on Women in Colonial 
India. New Delhi: Kali for Women, 1989.
Sarkar, Tanika. ‘Heroic Women: Mother Goddess: Family and Organisation in 
Hindutva Politics’, in Tanika Sarkar and Urvashi Buralia (eds), Women and the 
Hindu Right: A Collection of Essays, New Delhi: Kali for Women, 1995.
School of Women’s Studies Jadhavpur University (SWSJU). Re-Negotiating Gender 
Relations in Marriage: Family, Class, and Community in Kolkata: Jadhavpur 
University, 2010
Seidler, Victor. Unreasonable Men. Masculinity and Social Theory, London: Routledge 
1994.
Sunder Rajan, Rajeshwari. Real and Imagined Women, London: Routldge, 1993
Srivastava, Sanjay, ‘Masculinity and its Role in Gender-based Violence in Public 
Spaces’. Centre for Equity and Inclusion, 2012
Vishwanath, Kalpana and Surabhi Tandon Mehrotra. “Shall We Go Out”? Women’s 
Safety in Public Places in Delhi”, Economic and Political Weekly, 2007, Vol. 42, no. 
17, pp. 1542-48
Page | 233
Subramanian, K.S, ‘Victims of Police Brutality’, SPOTLIGHT Centre for Policy Analysis, 
New Delhi, 2003, Vol. II, No. 02, pp - 29-36
Tharu, Susie and K.Lalita Women Writing in India: From 6th Century BC to the Present (2 
Volumes) Delhi: Oxford University Press, 1991, 1993.
Veena Gopalakrishnan, Ajay Singh Solanki and Vikram Shroff, ‘India’s New Labour 
Law’, Nishith Desai Associates, 2013
http://www.slideshare.net/RohitNaagpal/prevention-and-prohibition-24169664, 
July 12, 2013
http://www.slideshare.net/sukanya.patwardhan/law-the-sexual-harassment-of-
women-atworkplace?utm_source=slideshow02&utm_medium=ssemail&utm_
camp aign=share_slideshow , Tata Management Training Centre, Pune, July 23, 
2013
Murthy, Laxmi, ‘From Mathura to Bhanwari’, Economic and Political Weekly, 2013, Vol. 
XLVIII, No. 23.
Narain, Ashima, ‘Fear in the Frame’ The Indian Express: New Delhi, 2013
http://ncrb.nic.in/cii2010/cii-2010/Chapter%205.pdf 
http://ncrb.nic.in/CD-CII2012/cii-2012/Chapter%205.pdf
‘Much Needed Clarity’, The Hindu: New Delhi, Editorial, September, 2, 2013
Viswanathan, Aparna, ‘A Task only Half Finished’, The Hindu: Delhi, August 28, 2013.
Films and Documentaries
Beyond Women’s Stereotypes, Nair, Bindu, India, 2004, Film.
Nirnay (Decision), Rawat, Pushpa and Srinivasan, Anupama. India, 2012, Film
Page | 234
I was a Teenage Feminist, Shechter, Therese. USA, 2005, Film.
Beyond the Veil, Nandakumar, Anusha. India, 2012, Film
My Sacred Glass Bowl, Thuvassery, Priya. India, 2013, Film
Killing us Softly 4, Jhally, Sut. USA, 2010, Film Fragments of a Past, Chakravarti, Uma. 
India, 2012, Film
Status Quo? The Unfinished Business of Feminism in Canada, Cho, Karen. Canada, 2012, 
Film
It was Rape, Baumgardner, Jennifer. USA, 2013, Film War Zone, Hadleigh-West, Maggie. 
USA, 1998, Film.
And You Thought You Knew Me, Menon, Pramada. India, 2013, Film Under Red Umbrella, 
Ostertag, Julia. Germany, 2009, Film Accssex, Ghosh, Shweta. India, 2013, Film 
Salma, Longinitto, Kim. UK,India, 2013, Film
Blood On My Hands, Saral, Surabhi; Matiyani, Manak and Kapur, Anandana. India, 
2006, Film
Ana Ahlaam, Salloum, Pierre. Lebanon, 2013, Film.
Finding Face, Fitzerald, Skye and Duncan, Patti. USA, 2009, Film.
Anita-Speaking Truth To Power, Mock, Freida Lee. USA, 2012, Film
Rafea: Solar Mama, Eldaief, Mona and Noujaim, Jehane. Jordan, India, 2012, Film.
All About Our Famila, Bennurakar, Chalam. India, 2012, Film
Roots of Love, Gill, Harjant, India, 2007, Film
Morality TV And The Loving Jehad, Vohra, Paromita. India, 2007, Film.
Mera Apna Sheher (My Own City), Jain, Sameera. India, 2011, Film.
Page | 235
A Short Film About, Sachar, Divya. India, 2010, Film.
Being Male, Being Koti, Bandyopadhyay, Mahuya. India, 2006, Film Buru Gaara, 
Shriprakash. India, 2007, Film.
It’s A Boy! (It’s Going to Be A Boy), Subramanian, Vani. India, 2008, Film. Kanyashala, 
Mukhi, Ganga. India, 2007, Film.
Moustaches Unlimited, Joshi, Vasudha. India, 2006, Film.
Shifting Prophecy, Baruah, Merajur Rehman. India, 2007, Film.
Somaething is Changing, Desai, Gopi. India, 2010, Film.
The Fight To Dance, Patel, Anish. India, 2006, Film.
There Is Something In The Air, Ghufran, Iram. India, 2011, Film.
Through our View Finder, Roy, Jasmine K. and Roy, Avinash. India, 2010, Film. To Think 
Like a Woman, Sinha, Arpita. India, 2006, Film.
We are not Soldiers...., Dutta, Debolina. And Sircar, Oishik,. India 2011, Film
Can’t Take It Away, Rai, Meenakshi. India, 2001, Film.
