6days 
Short Term Training Program
On 
New Trends & Modern Approaches in
Commerce & Management
23rd - 28th November, 2020 | Online
Organised by
Internal Quality Assurance Cell
& 
Department of Commerce 
Registration Link: https://tinyurl.com/6days-STTP-CM
About us
Vidyalankar School of Information Technology (VSIT) is a part of Vidyalankar Dnyanpeeth Trust situated
in Mumbai And is affiliated to the University of Mumbai. It was established in the year 2002. VSIT offers both
graduate and post-graduate programmes in the subjects of Information Technology, Commerce and Management.
This college that aims to impart Quality Education in the field of Science, Commerce and Management. VSIT has tie-
ups with renowned Foreign Universities like Penn State University, Rutgers University, California State University,
University of Toledo and many more. The mission of the institute concerns the creation of an educational
environment where students can reach their full potential
in their chosen discipline and also a scholarly environment
where the talents of both the faculty and students
are nurtured and used to create knowledge and technology for the
benefit of society, Fostered in the values expounded by the erudite founders C. S. Deshpande and Dr. Sanjeewani
Deshpande and currently propelled under the able leadership of the zealous Vishwas Deshpande, VSIT is drive to set
the highest standards in teaching and research.
About STTP
As the socio-political environment continues to face an unprecedented shift in 2020, there is a need to infuse, into
several sectors of the service industry, novel approaches, and a willingness to re-learn to re-invent. The Short-Term
Training Programme attempts to operate on a capsule strategy with an intent to inject the requisite dose to enable a
renewed perspective. From the New Education Policy that promises to revamp teaching and learning in the Indian
education system to emotional intelligence to boost perceptive capacities and further a holistic learning experience,
select modules have been curated to ensure a dynamic, outcome-based training programme for the participants. These
modules will find direct applications in varied professional activities. Additionally, the inclusion of multidisciplinary
modules will equip the participants with an arsenal of expertise, that are easily transferable across specialized subject
verticals. Hence IQAC and department of commerce jointly organising online short-term training programme on new
trends and modern approaches in commerce and management.
Objective:
The main objective of this STTP is to acquire knowledge on the recent developments, trends, and methodology in
various field of commerce and management through a series of lectures by experts in appropriate areas with the
hands on training through assignment and case study. The programme will help the participants use the acquired
skills in solving assignments which will mimic real case studies.
Pedagogy
The methods consist of lecture sessions, hands-on-exercises, discussion on cases and live problems. Academicians
with proven knowledge, Industrial experience, and demonstrable and related areas will deliver lectures and analyse
case studies.
Target Participants
Teachers  and Researchers from Commerce, management, and Art stream.  Post graduate students are also allowed 
from any discipline program. 
Key Features
•
Learning from  industry leaders
•
30 hours program 
•
This can be considered for appraisal purpose under carrier Assessment Scheme (CAS) for 
teachers promotion
•
Interactive training program
Resource Persons
Mr. Ajit Joshi,
Ex. Secretary,
Computer Society of India, Mumbai Chapter
Topic: Application of  Block Chain in Business
Mr. Pradeep Lokhande,
Social Entrepreneur & Founder- Rural Relation
Topic: Situational Analysis of  Industry and Agriculture
Mr. Wali Choudhary,
President, Sunidhi Securities & Finance Ltd,
Topic: Trends in Derivative Markets
Mr. Shailesh Haribhakti,
Board & Audit Committee Chair 
Independent Director 
Topic: Artificial Intelligence in Accountancy & Finance
Mr. Prasad Tokekar,
Sr. Vice President, Reliance Jio & Reliance Retail
Topic:  Recent trends in HR 
Ms. Bindu Narayanan,
Corporate Trainer
Topic: Emotional Intelligence
Program Instructions:

Last date of Registration: 20th November 2020

Registration Fee Rs. 500/-

Candidates should apply online 

Registration Link: https://tinyurl.com/6days-STTP-CM

E-Certificate will be provided to all the successful participants

WhatsApp Link(Join the link after registered): 
https://bit.ly/3lkf8a6

Meeting (Zoom) Link will be provided through registered    
mail id & WhatsApp group.
Payment Details:
Vidyalankar School of Information Technology
HDFC A/C Number – 50100193353285
IFSC – HDFC0003200
Branch – Wadala
Mumbai - 400037
Organising Team & Contact Details
Dr. N. Lakshmi Kavitha (M: 9892211834) 
Dr. Poonam Mirwani  (M: 9766222189)
Mr. Sandip Khandekar (M: 8356821591)
Ms. Sindhu Krishnan  (M: 9382150544)
Patrons
Dr. Rohini Kelkar,
Principal, VSIT
Mr. Vijay Gawde
Vice -Principal, VSIT
